subsystems As well as making a clear conceptual distinction between subsystems and SRP/CS (as a combination of subsystems), the preferred method of adding familiar PFH values has been separated more distinctly from the alternative, table-based method for subsystems without PFH. 6.9 Subsection 6.3: Software-based manual parameterisation The requirements on software-based parameterisation of safety-related parameters are now intentionally distinct from the rest of the software part of the standard. Furthermore, the authors emphasise that this only involves manual, software-based parameterisation by authorised persons. This includes, for example, parameterisation using specially designated parameterisation tools, but not parameterisation based on DIP switches (DIP: dual in-line package) and not automated parameterisation or direct control of a machine by an operator, e.g. speed control of a forklift truck. Two things are new: firstly, additional information on possible influences that can lead to incorrect parameterisation, and secondly, more detailed requirements on the documentation of parameterisation processes. 7 Section 7: Software safety requirements and Annexes J and N The requirements on the development of safety-related software are now summarised in a separate section 7. In the introduction, the authors state that the section does not contain any specific requirements on software using artificial intelligence. The V model of the software safety lifecycle provides more precise details of the verification steps (reviews and tests) and the results of the phases. It also covers documentation that is written further down the line, i.e. documentation that gets increasingly more detailed. What is new is a simplified two- Fourth Edition of EN ISO 13849-1 (July 2023) 7 / 12 stage version of the V model for programming languages with limited variability languages (LVL) that use validated function blocks and run as application programs (SRASW) on verified hardware. Here, the programming typically implements only simple logical assignment of input and output blocks,