subsystem level, as they can differ from one subsystem to another. The assessment must be based on expected use, including foreseeable faults and reasonably foreseeable misuse. An engineering assessment serves to eliminate typical causes of CCF wherever possible or to reduce the effects of the causes. This assessment, too, must be documented. Accordingly, in the second example in Annex I, which serves to illustrate the simplified procedure for estimating the PLs of subsystems, the anti-CCF measures are now each specified in detail. 15 Annex G: Systematic failure and functional safety plan The reference to Annex F of IEC 61508-2 on avoidance of systematic failures in the design of ASICs, FPGAs and PLDs has been removed, but continues to be implicitly applicable. A new subsection G.5 specifies how functional safety management methods can be used to implement the standard requirements arising from section 6.1.7. The aim is to specify a systematic approach to designing and implementing SRP/CS and thus to prevent faulty specification, implementation and modification. The centrepiece is a functional safety plan that documents all activities in this regard. Its form and extent depend, for example, on the project size, complexity and novelty. Its purpose is to identify all the relevant activities throughout the design process, from specification to validation and modification, and to describe the relevant responsibilities, resources and procedures. Fourth Edition of EN ISO 13849-1 (July 2023) 10 / 12 16 Annex L: Electromagnetic interference immunity Since the third edition of the standard, there has been the introduction of a new generic standard – IEC 61000-6-7 [8] – on immunity requirements for safety-related functional safety systems. To facilitate their implementation, a new informative Annex L now provides guidance on the implementation of the required measures for electromagnetic interference immunity. Depending on the application, four alternative options are provided: