6 Machine safety | sisylana ksiR noitaulave ksiR Risk reduction Basic conditions The information in this guideline focuses on risk evaluation. Within the risk assessment process, we focus on implementing technical measures to mitigate risk, evaluating the safety function, and determining the performance level. The graphic below shows the risk assessment process – this guide uses examples to take you through the individual steps until the performance level is achieved. The performance level (PL) must meet or exceed the required performance level (PL). This depends on factors such as the r control architecture (category), the mean time to dangerous failure (MTTF ), diagnostic coverage (DC), D and common cause failure (CCF). Select safety function Define safety function features Determine PL r Design and technical implementation of safety function Define PL PL ≥ PL Category MTTF DC CCF D r | Machine safety 7 For all safety functions! Basic conditions Risk assessment: Risk analysis Risk assessment comprises three areas: risk analysis, risk evaluation, and risk reduction. The actual risk analysis starts with defining the limits of a machine when considering all phases of its lifecycle. Once all hazards have been identified, the risk of each hazard must be estimated. Risk analysis: machine limits In addition to spatial limits and the overall duration of use, operating limits are a prime focus. Proper use is analyzed, including all operating modes and different intervention options, as well as reasonably foreseeable misuse. For risk analysis, it is necessary to consider the entire machine lifecycle, from transport to installation, commissioning and cleaning, disassembly and, finally, disposal. Spatial limits Motion range Intended machine use Required space Machine limits Foreseeable misuse Time limits Maintenance intervals Personnel qualifications Service life c Machine limits (risk analysis) Construction Changeover, process change Troubleshooting Cleaning Transport Normal operation Machine lifecycle phases Set-up Service