relays or a safety PLC. The electrical supply plate of the pilot valves is separated from the electronics voltage and the valve voltage of the G3 system. The mounted valves can also be used to control pilot-operated non-return valves, locking units, and pneumatically operated spring-return valves. 503 Zone Safety The 503 Zone Safety valve system enables several safety zones on one Series 503 valve system. This approach helps design engineers to meet the safety requirements of Machinery Directive 2006/42/EC and ISO 13849-1. At the same time, the pneumatic complexity in the individual pneumatic safety circuits is reduced. With this functionality, it is simple and cost-effective for original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and end users to configure up to three safety zones in a production machine with a single Series 503 valve system. Together with other safety-related parts of the control system (SRP/ CS), the 503 Zone Safety valve system enables safety functions such as safe de-energization, safe reversing, safe stopping and closing, and prevention of unexpected start-up. One valve system – up to three safety zones As with standard 503 valve systems, vertically stacked throttle modules, pressure regulators and other manifolds are available to provide maximum flexibility. • Combines several safety functions in one device • Eliminates air exhaust across the entire machine • Increases machine productivity • Maximizes flexibility Emerson expertise – AVENTICS-G3| Machine safety 33 Series G3/580 electronic platforms The Series G3 is a fully modular system with an innovative clip design. It enables easy module removal and replacement as well as short-term design changes without disassembling the valve system. This ensures that projects are delivered on time. The Series G3 also features an innovative graphic display that shows clear-text diagnostic messages. It provides clear feedback when commissioning valves, enabling faster commissioning processes and shorter critical phases. Faults are