safe products in certified quality. Some examples include valve systems with practical high-end characteristics, such as digital displays, a compact design, and all relevant connection options. Safety starts in the design and selection of components Take advantage of the wide range of safety concepts from Emerson with AVENTICS and ASCO products. Each and every one of our pneumatics and fluid control solutions promotes machine safety and reduces risks for your employees. Pneumatics range| Machine safety 23 24 Machine safety | Pneumatics range Emerson expertise To support machine and systems manufacturers, we not only provide this guide, but also offer individualized consulting based on our long-term experience. On the next pages, you will find circuit examples and parts from our product portfolio. For additional examples, please visit www.emerson. com/en-us/expertise/automation/improving-safety-security/machine-safety Scope of ISO 13849 for pneumatic controls For fluid power systems, the valve area is an especially critical control component in terms of safety. More specifically: valves that control potentially hazardous movements or system states. Required safety functions can usually be achieved by other linked controls with the appropriate valve versions or even by additional mechanical solutions such as holding devices or brakes. Drive elements as well as energy conversion and transfer components in fluid power systems are usually beyond the scope of the standard. In pneumatic systems, components must be protected against hazards associated with energy changes. Moreover, the air preparation unit used to process compressed air must be safely connected to the valve area. To reliably control possible energy changes, an exhaust valve is often used in conjunction with a pressure switch. 1A Drive elements Components that perform Relevant section safety-related function, e.g. valves for safety-related control component Components that guard against energy fluctuations OZ Potentially OZ11 OV11 OZ10 relevant for compliance with basic and well-tried OV10 “Air preparation unit”