or are directly related to the control technology. The engineered in Categories 1, 3 or 4. Since Category B req uirements that must be met by fluid power systems are already requires observance of the relevant standards and described in full in [58; 59]. [60 to 63] are further relevant of the basic safety principles, Category B and 1 fluid power standards. control systems do not differ essentially in their control structure, but only in the higher safety-related reliability The majority of control system examples are electrohy- of the relevant valves. For this reason, this report does draulic or electropneumatic controls. A range of safety not present any Category B fluid power control systems. requirements on these control systems are satisfied by Further information on hydraulics and pneumatics can be the electrical part of the control system, for example the found on the IFA website (www.dguv.de/ifa, Webcode: requirement for energy changes on electrohydraulic con- d1029520). trol systems to be controlled. 8.1.3 Electronic and programmable electronic On the control examples described here, the required control systems safety function is the stopping of a hazardous movement or the reversal of a direction of movement. Prevention of Electronic components are generally more sensitive to unexpected start-up is implicitly included. The required external environmental influences than electromechanical 102 8 Circuit examples for SRP/CS components. If no particular measures are taken, the use In contrast to electromechanical circuits, purely electronic of electronic components at temperatures below 0°C is circuits often have the advantage that a change of state subject to substantially greater constraints compared to can be forced dynamically. This permits attainment of the electromechanical components. In addition, environmen- required DC at appropriately short intervals and without tal influences exist that are virtually irrelevant to electro- alteration of the state of external signals (forced dyna-