mechanical circuit elements but that present crucial prob- mics). lems for electronic systems, namely any electromagnetic disturbances that are coupled into electronic systems in Decoupling measures are required between different the form of conducted disturbance or electromagnetic channels in order to prevent common cause failures. fields. In some cases, greater effort is required in order These measures generally consist of galvanically isolated for adequate resistance to disturbance to be attained for contacts, resistor or diode networks, filter circuits, opto- industrial use. Fault exclusion is virtually impossible on couplers and transformers. electronic components. In consequence, safety cannot in principle be guaranteed by the design of a particular Systematic failures may lead to simultaneous failure of component, but only by certain circuit concepts and by redundant processing channels if this is not prevented by the application of appropriate measures for the control of timely consideration, in particular during the design and faults. integration phase. The use of principles such as closed- circuit current, diversity or overdimensioning enables According to the fault lists for electrical/electronic compo- electronic circuits to be designed to be robust. Measures nents to EN ISO 13849-2, the faults of short circuit, open that render the processing channels insensitive to the circuit, change of a parameter or a value, and stuck-at physical influences encountered for example in an indus- faults are essentially assumed. These are without excep- trial environment should not be ignored. Such influences tion fault effects that are assumed to be permanent. Tran- include temperature, moisture, dust, vibration, shock, sient (sporadically occurring) faults such as soft errors corrosive atmospheres, electromagnetic influences, vol- caused by charge reversal of a capacitor in a chip owing tage breakdown, overvoltage and undervoltage. to high-energy particles such as alpha particles can gene- rally be detected only with difficulty and controlled for the A