certain comments of a gene- the release (break operation) of a button already pressed. ral nature are made in the following technology-specific subclauses in order to provide a better understanding of Where relevant to the example concerned, particular refe- the examples and for implementation of the Categories. rence is made under “Remarks” to aspects specific to a Some of the circuit examples represent “control systems possible application. involving multiple technologies”. These “mixed” circuit examples are based upon the concept, enshrined in the Under “Calculation of the probability of failure”, a descrip- standard, that a safety function is always implemented by tion is provided of calculation of the PL from the para- “reception”, “processing” and “switching”, irrespective of meters Category, MTTF , DC and CCF, based upon the the technology employed. D avg safety-related block diagram derived from the conceptual schematic diagram. The Category is determined from the 8.1 General technology-related remarks on functional description and the design features. the example control systems The MTTF values employed in the calculations are marked 8.1.1 Electromechanical controls D as manufacturer‘s values (“[M]” for manufacturer), typical values from databases (“[D]” for database), or values from Electromechanical controls primarily employ electrome- EN ISO 13849-1 (“[S]” for standard). In accordance with chanical components in the form of control devices (e.g. the standard, priority should be given to manufacturers‘ position switches, selector switches, pushbuttons) and data. For certain components, neither reliable manufactu- switchgear (contactor relays, relays, contactors). These rers‘ data nor database values were available at the time devices have defined switching positions. They do not of production of the report. In this case, use was made of generally change their switching state unless actuated the parts count method for estimation of typical example externally or electrically. When selected properly and values (marked “[E]” for estimated). The