guidance concerning estimation of the DC values. This can also serve as a basis for verification. • Inspection of development documents that confirm the application of basic and well-tried safety principles and The implemented design shall be analysed regarding further measures taken, such as hardware diversity whether the fault diagnostics measures described have been implemented. For this purpose, it is generally neces- The present report does not address the evaluations of sary for the fault diagnostics functions and modules to organizational measures required by EN ISO 13849-2 [6] be identified in the development documentation, and for the avoidance of systematic failures, such as quality toestimate their effectiveness . In addition, tests of the management systems for the manufacturing process (sub- behaviour under fault conditions of the SRP/CS (failure clause 9.4 e in [6]). mode and effects testing/testing by fault injection) should show that proper fault detection is assured by the fault 7.4.6 Verification and validation of the diagnostics functions. Finally, calculation of the DC is to software avg be checked at least for plausibility. The verification activities performed in the course of spe- 7.4.4 Verification of the measures against CCF cification, design and coding of the software (inspection/ review for software specification, software design and EN ISO 13849-1, Annex F contains a points-based method code, static software analysis, module test, software for evaluation of the selected measures against common simulation, integration test) have already been described cause failures (CCF). Besides checking of attainment comprehensively in subclause 6.3. For verification of the of the total number of points and clarification that the software, too, graded software design measures shall be selected measures are described comprehensively in the specified in this context according to the PL to be attai- associated documents, analysis or testing shows that the ned. measures have actually been