tified or validated by quality assurance measures in the • Testing of the resistance to interference caused by form of safety function blocks do not require re-testing. ambient influences, i.e. functional testing under spe- Evidence shall however be furnished that validation has cified environmental conditions (climatic conditions, already been performed. Where a number of such safety mechanical stress, electromagnetic compatibility, etc.); function blocks are combined for a specific project, how- see clause 10 in [6] 92 7 Verification and validation ever, the resulting safety function shall be validated as a be followed for the presentation (layout, typography, etc.) whole. of information for use. Their application during evaluation is however not mandatory. Information supplied with the In the particular case of SRESW used in SRP/CS with PL e product is usually analysed by inspection and/or review. and not developed with diversity for the two channels, the requirements for SIL 3 set out in clause 7 of IEC 61508-3 7.6 Validation of the combination and [42] shall be satisfied in full during software development. integration of SRP/CS This includes the V&V activities required in the clauses concerned. Individual SRP/CS shall be validated separately prior to combination. In order for systematic faults to be avoided Should the safety-related software subsequently be modi- during the combination/integration of SRP/CS, the fol- fied, it shall be reverified and revalidated on an appropri- lowing V&V activities shall be performed: ate scale. The verification and validation plan described in subclause 7.1.2 can and should serve as an aid to plan- • Inspection of the design documents that altogether ning for this purpose. describe implementation of the safety function con- cerned A further area of software verification concerns configura- ble, parameterizable and programmable SRP/CS. Where • Comparison of the characteristic data for the interfaces parameterization and programmability are software-