in advance. The tests may be performed either manu- safety functions. ally or automatically. Returning to the design and implementation process also Where testing is employed for verification, the meas- means identifying the elements of the V&V process that urement uncertainty shall be reasonable. EN ISO 13849-2 were not passed and assigning them to V&V activities to provides information on the limits that are to be obser- which they must once again be subjected. For this pur- ved. pose, the V&V plan (see subclause 7.1.2) may contain sui- table elements, and entries be made in it. Subclauses 7.3 to 7.7 describe the typical V&V activities of the individual aspects: safety functions, PL, Category, The scenario of negative results shall therefore be MTTF , DC and CCF, software, user information and user addressed in the processes of SRP/CS design and deve- D interface; subclause 7.8 then describes them with refe- lopment. Accordingly, processes and measures for the rence to the example of a paper-cutting guillotine. management of defective software are required (for docu- ments, records, data, configurations, software, samples/ 7.1.7 Documentation of results prototypes, etc.). All analysis and test activities shall be documented 7.2 Verification of the specification and the together with their results. During documentation of the technical documentation results, it is important that the technical specifications and assessment standards referred to are dated or refe- By a wide margin, the document most frequently named renced by versioning; that the item under analysis/under (not only in this report) with respect to implementation test (document, software, test specimen, etc.) is uniquely of an SRP/CS is the specification. This refers to the spe- identified; that selected configurations are recorded; that cification of all requirements (technical specification), the analysis/test conditions including their setup and specification of the safety functions, specification of the procedure