implemented. The typical V&V activities employed for this purpose include static The final development activity in the simplified “V model” hardware analysis and functional testing under environ- is that of software validation. Whether the requirements mental conditions (limit conditions). stated in the safety-related software specification con- cerning the functional behaviour and the performance 7.4.5 Verification of the technical measures criteria (e.g. time-related specifications) have been imple- against systematic failures mented correctly shall be examined. At this stage, vali- dation no longer considers the internal workings of the V&V activities concerning technical measures for the software, but its “external” behaviour, i.e. the behaviour avoidance and control of systematic failures assess at the output in response to changes at the inputs, with whether the required design measures described in the complete software integrated into the hardware. The EN ISO 13849-1, Annex G and explained further in sub- software is considered here as a “black box”, and is vali- clause 6.1.2 of this report have been implemented. Con- dated by the “black-box test”. Supplementary I/O tests firmation can typically be provided by: ensure that the safety-related input and output signals are used correctly. The functional test is then performed • Functional testing at limit values and with modified at system level (on the SRP/CS). Performance of an exten- rated values, and failure mode and effects testing/tes- ded test case with (possibly simulated) fault cases serves ting by fault injection on the supply units (e.g. voltage to demonstrate the effectiveness and correct implementa- breakdown, voltage fluctuation, overvoltage, undervol- tion of fault detection and fault handling (reaction in the tage, changes in AC current and frequency, clock change event of a fault) implemented by the software. and other phenomena and operating stresses that may lead to failure) Individual software functions that have already been cer-