Institut für [1] EN 954-1: Safety-related parts of control systems. Arbeitsschutz der Deutschen Gesetzlichen Unfall- Part 1: General principles for design (12.96) versicherung (IFA), Sankt Augustin; Zentralverband Elektrotechnik- und Elektronikindustrie (ZVEI) e.V. [2] Goble, W. M.: Control systems safety evaluation and – Fachverband Automation, Frankfurt am Main, reliability. 3rd ed. Published by: The International and Verband Deutscher Maschinen- und Anlagen- Society of Automation (ISA), Research Triangle Park, bau e. V. – VDMA, Frankfurt am Main, Germany 2015. North Carolina 2010 www.dguv.de/ifa, Webcode: e20892 [3] IEC 61508-1: Functional safety of electrical/electro- nic/programmable electronic safety-related systems – Part 1: General requirements (2010) [4] IEC 61508-5: Functional safety of electrical/electro- nic/programmable electronic safety-related systems – Part 5: Examples of methods for the determination of safety integrity levels (2010) 300 Annex H: SISTEMA: the software utility for evaluation of SRP/CS H.1 What is SISTEMA capable of? effects of the changes assessed with little effort. The final results are summarized in a report, which can be printed The SISTEMA software utility (SISTEMA is the German out. acronym for safety of control systems on machines) pro- vides developers and testers of safety-related machine H.2 How is SISTEMA used? controls with comprehensive support in the evaluation of safety in the context of EN ISO 13849-1. The tool, which SISTEMA processes basic elements from a total of six runs on Windows, enables the structure of the SRP/CS hierarchical levels: the project (PR), the safety function to be modelled based upon “designated architectures”, (SF), the subsystem (SB), the channel (CH)/test channel and ultimately permits automated calculation of the reli- (TE), the block (BL) and the element (EL). The relationship ability values at various levels of detail, including that of between them is shown briefly below (Figure H.1). the attained Performance Level (PL) and the probability of failure (PFH ).