a longer may have an effect only in unpredictable operational situ- period. In this case, fine dirt particles are deposited in ations and which may not be detectable with reasonable the sealing gap between switching cycles, causing the effort during acceptance/commissioning, can thus be valving element to stick. prevented in a user-friendly manner. For these reasons, a high force surplus (e.g. spring force) This does not mean that the designer is spared a com- must generally be engineered for return of the valving ele- plete analysis of the influence exerted by functional ment to the “safety-oriented switching position”. On non- standard components of a control system upon its safety- mechanical springs, retention of the reset function must related parts (including the influence of the safety-related be assured by suitable measures. In addition, the effects functions upon each other); the analysis of where (tech- described above must be prevented by cyclical switching, nically) and how (functionally) such influences may arise to which the standard now refers. Failures caused by the is however considerably simplified and accelerated by the absence of switching are to be prevented by suitable swit- use of the development tools referred to above. The even ching cycles/test cycles at intervals for example of less more pertinent question, namely how to eliminate (avoid than eight hours. or control) influences that are detected, may not even arise. Example 3: Separation of safety-related and non-safety-related 6.1.3 Ergonomics functions Annex I, subclause 1.1.6 of the European 2006/42/EC Standards governing functional safety generally address Machinery Directive requires requires manufacturers of the separation of safety-related functions from other machines to reduce, at the design stage of the machine, (non-safety-related) functions. EN ISO 13849-2 is one the discomfort, fatigue and psychological stress faced by such example, regarding this separation for example as a the operator