are included; and that all verification/valida- design (with respect of course to safety) with its focus tion points/cases are recorded together with the results. upon software integrity, and specification of the intended Formal information such as document identifiers, persons operating, environmental and application conditions. performing the test/analysis, date, signature, etc. shall Chapter 6 of this report, specifically Box 6.1, contains of course be documented. Depending upon the level of comprehensive information on the required content of the automation and the tools and equipment used for the technical specification. The use of computer-aided spe- V&V measure, the documentation of the results will vary. cification tools and formal methods for the generation of The content referred to above should however be regar- the specification is possible, albeit unusual. ded as the minimum scope of documentation. Documen- tation management consistent with the need arising from Verification thus addresses the “specification” document the V&V process is therefore appropriate. Support and and takes the form of inspection and review. Division of resources of any kind used for this purpose, ranging from the procedure into two parts has proved effective. Verifi- record forms to document management systems, may be cation is first performed by experienced personnel in the considered valuable. manufacturer's operation. This is followed by verification by a competent external body, such as a test institute. 7.1.8 Completion or iteration Verification of the entire development and design docu- The combination of different SRP/CS involved in a safety mentation is covered by clause 12 of EN ISO 13849-2. This function attains a Performance Level PL. At the end of the clause is cross-referenced to the required content of the V&V process, this PL shall be compared to the required technical documentation (clause10 of the standard). Ana- Performance Level PL for the safety function in question. lyses