the events that trigger it and the cutting guillotine, how the methods for the design of safe required safety responses. control systems can be implemented. The methods for determining the PL are described step by step here and The “functional description” describes the essential in EN ISO 13849-1; some of these steps however, such as safety-related functions, based upon a conceptual sche- deriving the safety-related block diagram from the circuit matic diagram. The behaviour in the event of a fault is diagram, require some practice. SISTEMA Cookbook 1 [33] explained, and measures for fault detection are stated. provides guidance on deriving the safety-related block diagram and the SISTEMA file from the circuit diagram. The particular characteristics in the design of the example However, owing to the variety of possible safety functions in question, such as the application of well-tried safety and their implementation, the individual steps do not principles and the use of well-tried components, are listed lend themselves to generic description. For this reason, under the “design features”. this chapter will now present the evaluation of numerous circuit examples that implement the safety functions The circuit diagrams are conceptual schematic diagrams in various Categories and Performance Levels and by that are limited solely to presentation of the safety means of different technologies. In the circuit examples, function(s) with the relevant components required for this the concept of a control system generally covers only the particular purpose. In the interests of clarity, certain addi- safety-related parts of control systems. The examples are tional circuitry that is normally required has been omit- limited to essential aspects, and therefore serve primarily ted, for example that for the assurance of electric shock to illustrate the methodology. Importance was attached protection, for control of overvoltage/undervoltage and in their selection to a wide spectrum of