relieve programmers of be documented. Should these already be contained in tasks and enhance the quality of the software. the tool, an appropriate reference to these properties is sufficient. Finally, the test activities must be documented. • Libraries of software functions: The integration test and validation of the safety functions The design of the system should consider existing are often performed at the same time. These tests must or supplied libraries and, where practicable, employ obviously be planned and must be documented together validated functions. The following principle applies: with the test results. the more the program is based upon functions that are already validated or indeed certified, the fewer project- What is meant by configuration management? For safety- specific software components remain that must be related software in particular, it is obvious and therefore validated internally or by an external organization prior a requirement that its development be transparent to all to commissioning. For typical recurring functions, sys- parties involved and for subsequent inspections: tem integrators are well advised to invest the necessary effort in developing suitable modules themselves to • Who performed specification, programming, commis- EN ISO 13849-1 such that they can also be re-used and sioning, verification and validation, and when? tested, including by independent persons, routinely and without error. Discrete library functions also require • What was used for development, e.g. tools and their specification, design, test plan, validation, etc. settings, re-used functions and their identification, pro- gramming guidelines? • Suitable programming languages: For SRASW, application-oriented languages are recom- • What program versions are loaded on which SRP/CS? mended, for example in accordance with IEC 61131-3 [46]. Even these languages are more comprehensive This and other necessary information, including all rele- than necessary, and contain constructs that in some vant development documents, must be recorded and