detected by fault detection via the test chan- nel (X4, X5); the safe state is brought about) Note: the functional and test chan- nel may comprise one or more component(s). Two-channel, Category 3 (single-fault tolerance by with fault detec- redundancy, testing) tion Note: Each channel may comprise one or more component(s). SISTEMA Cookbook (Version 1.0) - 9 - 3 From the schematic circuit diagram to the safety-related block diagram Structure Category to EN ISO 13849-1 and Typical representation in the particular features safety-related block diagram Two-channel, Category 4 (as for Category 3, but with fault detec- also robust against the accumula- tion tion of two undetected faults) Note: Each channel may comprise one or more component(s). Encapsulated subsystems constitute a particular case. Encapsulated subsystems are com- ponents for which the manufacturer himself states the PL, PFH and Category (e.g. safety PLC, safety modules); see Table 2. Table 2: Encapsulated subsystems Structure Category to EN ISO 13849-1 and Typical representation in the particular features safety-related block diagram Different internal PL, PFH and Category are stated by structures possible the manufacturer Note: Component arrangements other than these do not comply with the designated archi- tectures of EN ISO 13849-1 and cannot be analysed by SISTEMA. 3.2 Structural analysis and explanations In the structural analysis, the components in the schematic circuit diagram are transferred to a safety-related block diagram, and the Category is determined by means of the characteris- tics of redundancy, testing, and the use of well-tried components. Note: This section is only concerned with determining the structure. Additional requirements beyond this apply to all Categories: for example, components must be designed, fabricated, selected, assembled and combined in compliance with the relevant stan- dards in such a way that they are able to withstand the anticipated ambient condi- tions. Essential safety principles