anticipated operating conditions. tracks of PCBs have not been determined in the past. Further criteria include switching capacity, rate of ope- The conductor tracks are usually of copper, without tin rations, withstand voltage, pressure level, dynamic coating. The reference [5; 6] can assist in assessment of pressure behaviour, volumetric flow, temperature and the phenomenon. viscosity of the hydraulic fluid, type and condition of the hydraulic fluid or compressed air. • Conductors/cables • All components are resistant to the environmental The fault assumption of a “short-circuit between any conditions and relevant external influences. two conductors” can be excluded when the conductors: The SRP/CS is designed to be able to perform its func- – are permanently connected (fixed) and protected tions under the external influences usually associated against external damage (e.g. by cable ducting, with the application. Important criteria include mecha- armouring); or nical influences, climatic influences, the leak tightness of the enclosure, and the resistance to electromagnetic – are laid in separate multicore cables or within an elec- interference. trical compartment; or • Principle of de-energization (closed-circuit current – are individually shielded with earth connection. principle) A condition of the above is that the conductors and the The safe state is attained by removal of the control sig- compartment both satisfy the relevant requirements nal (voltage, pressure), i.e. by de-energization. Impor- (see IEC 60204-1). tant criteria include the safe state when the energy sup- ply is interrupted, or effective spring return on valves in • Electromechanical position switches, manually opera- fluid power technology. ted switches • Protection against unexpected start-up Exclusion of the “Contact will not open” fault can be assumed subject to the following condition: Unexpected start-up, caused for example by stored energy or upon restoration of the power supply, is pre- – Contacts to IEC 60947-5-1:2003, Annex K open