every three years. 20 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Standards Article 670 of the NEC covers some details on industrial machinery and refers the reader to the Electrical Standard for Industrial Machinery, NFPA 79. NFPA 79 applies to electrical/electronic equipment, apparatus, or systems of industrial machines. The purpose of NFPA 79 is to provide detailed information for the application of electrical/electronic equipment, apparatus, or systems supplied as part of industrial machines that will promote safety to life and property. NFPA 79, which was offi cially adopted by ANSI in 1962, is very similar in content to the standard IEC 60204-1. Machines, which are not covered by specifi c OSHA standards, are required to be free of recognized hazards which may cause death or serious injuries. These machines must be designed and maintained to meet or exceed the requirements of applicable industry standards. NFPA 79 is a standard that would apply to machines not specifi cally covered by OSHA standards. Canadian Standards CSA Standards refl ect a national consensus of producers and users - including manufactures, consumers, retailers, unions and professional organizations, and government agencies. The standards are used widely by industry and commerce and often adopted by municipal, provincial, and federal governments in their regulations, particularly in the fi elds of health, safety, building and construction, and the environment. Individuals, companies, and associations across Canada indicate their support for CSA’s standards development by volunteering their time and skills to CSA Committee work and supporting the Association’s objectives through sustaining memberships. The more than 7000 committee volunteers and the 2000 sustaining memberships together form CSA’s total membership. The Standards Council of Canada is the coordinating body of the National Standards system, a federation of independent, autonomous organizations working towards the further development and improvement of voluntary standardization in the national interest. Australian Standards