are detected include: message insertion, message loss, message corruption, message delay, message repeat, and incorrect message sequence. For most applications, when an error is detected the device will go to a known de- energized state, typically called a “safe state.” The safety input or output communication module is responsible for detecting these communication errors and then going to the safe state if appropriate. Early safety networks were tied to a particular media type or media access scheme, so manufacturers were required to use specifi c cables, network interface cards, routers, bridges, etc. that also became part of the safety function. These networks were limited in that they only supported communication between safety devices. This meant that manufacturers were required to use two or more networks for their machine control strategy (one network for standard control and another for safety related control) increasing installation, training and spare parts costs. Modern safety networks allow a single network cable to communicate with safety and standard control devices. CIP (Common Industrial Protocol) Safety is an open standard protocol published by ODVA (Open DeviceNet Vendors Association) that allows for safety communications between safety devices on DeviceNet, ControlNet and EtherNet/IP networks. Because CIP Safety is an extension to the standard CIP protocol, safety devices and standard devices can all reside on the same network. Users can also bridge between networks containing safety devices, allowing them to subdivide safety devices to fi ne-tune safety response times, or to simply make distribution of safety devices easier. Because the safety protocol is solely the responsibility of the end devices (safety PLC / controller, safety I/O module, safety component), standard cables, network interface cards, bridges, and routers are used, eliminating any special networking hardware and removing these devices from the safety function. 53 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems