IEC. For example, the EN (European Norm) standards are used throughout the EEA countries. All new EN standards are aligned with, and in most cases have identical text with ISO and IEC standards. Also the US now often references IEC and ISO standards. IEC covers electrotechnical issues and ISO covers all other issues. Most industrialized countries are members of IEC and ISO. Machinery safety standards are written by working groups comprised of experts from many of the world’s industrialized counties. In most countries standards can be regarded as voluntary whereas regulations are legally mandatory. However standards are usually used as the practical interpretation of the regulations. Therefore the worlds of standards and regulations are closely interlinked. ISO (International Organization for Standardization) ISO is a non-governmental organization comprised of the national standards bodies of most of the countries of the world (157 countries at the time of this printing). A Central Secretariat, located in Geneva, Switzerland, coordinates the system. ISO generates standards for designing, manufacturing and using machinery more effi ciently, safer and cleaner. The standards also make trade between countries easier and fairer. ISO standards can be identifi ed by the three letters ISO. The ISO machine standards are organized in the same fashion as the EN standards, three levels: Type A, B and C (see the later section on EN Harmonized European Standards). For more information, visit the ISO website: www.iso.org. 18 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Standards IEC (International Electrotechnical Commission) The IEC prepares and publishes international standards for electrical, electronic and related technologies. Through its members, the IEC promotes international cooperation on all questions of electrotechnical standardization and related matters, such as the assessment of conformity to electrotechnical standards. For more information, visit the IEC website: www.iec.ch EN Harmonized European Standards These standards are common to all EEA countries