SFF value will normally be stated by the manufacturer if it is relevant. The Safe Failure Fraction (SFF) can be calculated using the following equation: SFF = (∑λ S + (∑λ DD) / ((∑λ S + (∑λ D) where ∑S = the rate of safe failure, ∑λS + ∑λD = the rate of all failure, λDD = the rate of detected dangerous failure λ D = the rate of all dangerous failure. Systematic Failure The standard has requirements for the control and avoidance of systematic failure. Systematic failures differ from random hardware failures which are failures occurring at a random time, typically resulting from some form of degradation of parts of hardware. Typical types of possible systematic failure are software design errors, hardware design errors, requirement specifi cation errors and operational procedures. Examples of steps necessary to avoid systematic failure include • proper selection, combination, arrangements, assembly and installation of components, • use of good engineering practice; • follow manufacturer’s specifi cations and installation instructions; • ensuring compatibility between components • withstanding environmental conditions: • use of suitable materials 97 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery Chapter 9: Safety-Related Control Systems, Additional Considerations Overview This chapter looks at general structural considerations and principles that should be taken into account when designing a safety related control system.. Categories of Control Systems The “Categories” of control systems originated in the former EN 954-1:1996 (ISO13849-1:1999). However they are still often used to describe the structure of safety control systems and they remain an integral part of (EN) ISO13849-1 as Designated Architectures. The description and requirements of the Categories are discussed earlier in this publication at “Overview of (EN) ISO 13849-1”. This section is intended to provide a simplifi ed but practical guide on how to implement the Category structures. Category