is a requirement that machinery must be properly maintained. This will normally mean that there must be a routine and planned preventive maintenance schedule. It is recommended that a log is compiled and kept up to date. This is especially important in cases where the maintenance and inspection of equipment contributes to the continuing safety integrity of a protective device or system. The Annex of the U.W.E. Directive gives general minimum requirements applicable to work equipment. If the equipment conforms to relevant product directives, e.g., The Machinery Directive, they will automatically comply with the corresponding machine design requirements given in the minimum requirements of the Annex. Member states are allowed to issue legislation regarding the use of work equipment that goes beyond the minimum requirements of the U.W.E. Directive. 12 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Regulations Detailed information on the Use of Work Equipment Directive can be found at the offi cial EU website: https://osha.europa.eu/en/legislation/directives/3 U.S. Regulations This section introduces some of the industrial machine guarding safety regulations in the U.S. This is only a starting point; readers must further investigate the requirements for their specifi c applications and take measures to ensure that their designs, uses and maintenance procedures and practices meet their own needs as well as national and local codes and regulations. There are many organizations that promote industrial safety in the United States. These include: 1. Corporations, which use established requirements as well as establish their own internal requirements; 2. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA); 3. Industrial organizations like the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), the Robotics Industries Association (RIA), and the Association of Manufacturing Technology (AMT), ANSI which publishes a list of recognized consensus standards; and the suppliers of safety products and solutions such as Rockwell Automation. Occupational Safety and Health Administration In the United