or other controllers. 51 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery Integrated Tasks 1. Standard tags and logic behave the same as ControlLogix. 2. Standard tag data, program or controller scoped and external devices, HMI, PC’s, other controllers, etc. 3. As an integrated controller, GuardLogix provides the ability to move (map standard tag data into safety tags for use within the safety task. This is to provide users the ability to read status information from the standard side of GuardLogix. This data must not be used to directly control a safety output. 4. Safety tags can be directly read by standard logic. 5. Safety tags can be read or written by safety logic. 6. Safety tags can be exchanged between GuardLogix controllers over EtherNet/IP. 7. Safety tag data, program or controller scoped, can be read by external devices, HMI’s, PC’s, other controllers, etc. Note, once this data is utilized outside of the safety task, it is considered standard data, not safety data. 52 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Implementation of Protective Measures Safety Networks Plant fl oor communication networks have traditionally provided manufacturers the capability to improve fl exibility, increase diagnostics, increase distance, reduce installation & wiring cost, ease maintainability and generally improve the productivity of their manufacturing operations. These same motivations have also driven the implementation of industrial safety networks. These safety networks allow manufacturers to distribute safety I/O and safety devices around their machinery using a single network cable for both safety and standard IO communications, reducing installation costs while improving diagnostics and enabling safety systems of increased complexity. They also enable safe communications between safety PLCs / controllers, allowing users to distribute their safety control among several intelligent systems. Safety networks are designed to detect transmission errors and initiate an appropriate fault reaction function. Communication errors that