term has sometimes been associated only with programmable safety systems. This is a misconception. Functional safety covers a broad range of devices that are used to create safety systems. Devices like interlocks, light curtains, safety relays, safety PLCs, safety contactors, and safety drives are interconnected to form a safety system, which performs a specifi c safety-related function. This is functional safety. Therefore the functional safety of an electrical control system is highly relevant to the control of hazards arising from moving parts of machinery. Two types of requirements are necessary to achieve functional safety: • The safety function and • The safety integrity. Risk assessment plays a key role in developing the functional safety requirements. Task and hazard analysis leads to the functional requirements for safety (i.e. the safety function). The risk quantifi cation yields the safety integrity requirements (i.e. the safety integrity or performance level). Four of the most signifi cant control system functional safety standards for machinery are: 1. IEC/EN 61508 “Functional safety of safety related electrical, electronic and programmable electronic control systems” This standard contains the requirements and provisions that are applicable to the design of complex electronic and programmable systems and subsystems. The standard is generic so it is not restricted to the machinery sector. 2. IEC/EN 62061 “Safety of machinery - Functional safety of safety related electrical, electronic and programmable electronic control systems” This standard is the machinery specifi c implementation of IEC/EN 61508. It provides requirements that are applicable to the system level design of all types of machinery safety-related electrical control systems and also for the design of non-complex subsystems or devices. It requires that complex or programmable subsystems should satisfy IEC/EN 61508 62 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety Related Control Systems & Functional Safety 3. (EN) ISO 13849-1 “Safety of machinery - Safety