record this signature as part of the validation results for future reference. If the program needs modifi cation, revalidation is required and a new signature must be recorded. The program can also be locked with a password to prevent unauthorised changes. Wiring is simplifi ed with programmable logic systems as compared to monitoring safety relays. Unlike wiring to specifi c terminals on monitoring safety relays, input devices are connected to any safety input terminals and output devices are connected to any safety output terminals. The terminals are then assigned through software. Integrated Safety Controllers Safety control solutions now provide complete integration within a single control architecture where safety and standard control functions reside and work together. The ability to perform motion, drive, process, batch, high speed sequential, and SIL 3 safety in one controller provides signifi cant benefi ts. The integration of safety and standard control provides the opportunity to utilize common tools and technologies which reduce costs associated with design, installation, commissioning and maintenance. The ability to utilize common control hardware, distributed safety I/O or devices on safety networks and common HMI devices reduce purchase and maintenance costs, and also reduce development time. All of these features improve productivity, the speed associated with troubleshooting and the lowering of training costs due to commonality. The following diagram shows an example of the integration of control and safety. The standard non-safety related control functions reside in the Main Task. The safety related functions reside in the Safety Task. All standard and safety related functions are isolated from each other. For example, safety tags can be directly read by the standard logic. Safety tags can be exchanged between GuardLogix controllers over EtherNet/IP, ControlNet or DeviceNet. Safety tag data can be directly read by external devices, Human Machine Interfaces (HMI), personal computers (PC)