sensor or input device, a logic device, and an output device. Together, these elements provide a level of protection calculated by performance level as outlined in (EN) ISO 13849-1 Rockwell Automation has developed many safety function documents, each providing guidance for a specifi c safety function based on functional requirement, equipment selection, and performance level requirement. They including set-up and wiring, confi guration, verifi cation and validation plan, and calculation of performance level. Safety maturity Index tool The Safety Maturity Index™ is a comprehensive measurement of performance in safety culture, compliance processes and procedures, and capital investments in safety technologies. It helps companies understand their current level of performance and steps they can take to improve safety and profi tability. Services and experience to support you As the world’s largest industrial safety provider, Rockwell Automation can help to reduce injuries and costs while improving productivity at every phase of the Safety Life Cycle. Safety services are delivered by experienced staff who are safety qualifi ed; many with TÜV Rheinland Machinery Safety certifi cations. Rockwell Automation employs people who are TÜV Functional Safety Experts, Engineers and Technicians to help customers with their holistic safety lifecycle. The Safety Life Cycle is a clearly-defi ned process that helps to maximize productivity and improve safety by identifying the steps required to assess and mitigate machinery risks. The Safety Life Cycle can be seen and downloaded in this document. Some of the services available are: • Safety Assessments Services that help to evaluate plant risk and support well-informed decisions that help to improve employee and machine safety. • Design Services Comprehensive circuit design, correct application of devices and design reviews to help improve overall safety. • Installation and Validation Services Verifi cation that systems are operating within defi ned parameters and standards. 142 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK