to check if changes have been made to a confi guration fi le. Any change to the confi guration removes the Safety Verifi cation ID. Subsequent Verify actions generate a different verifi cation ID. The Safety Verifi cation ID is displayed in Connected Components Workbench software only when you are connected to the 440C-CR30 relay. 137 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery Chapter 11: Products, Tools and Services Overview Rockwell Automation is a leading global provider of industrial power, control and information solutions, and has been supporting its customers across multiple industries, for well over 100 years. Part of its industrial automation portfolio is comprehensive machinery safety technologies, tools and services. Products and technologies for your applications Rockwell Automation has the broadest portfolio of any machinery safety solutions supplier, and can provide all three parts of a safety system (input device, logic control and fi nal power element). IINNTTEEGGRRAATTEEDD SSAAFFEETTYY SSOOLLUUTTIIOONNSS SAFETY LOGIC SAFETY INPUTS SAFETY OUTPUTS CONTROLLERS CCCOOONNNNNNEEECCCTTTIIIOOONNN SSSYYYSSSTTTEEEMMMSSS Products and technologies available include:- 138 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Products, tools and services Safety input devices • Presence-sensing safety devices Presence Sensing Safety Devices detect the location of objects or personnel near hazardous areas. These include: safety light curtains, safety laser scanners, hand detection safety sensors, pressure sensitive mats and edges • Safety interlock switches Safety Switches are designed and built to global standards for high reliability, stability, and quality. Safety switches include limit and interlock switches and emergency stop switches. • Emergency stop & trip devices Emergency Stop Switches include a range of mushroom push-button devices with positively guided contacts. Enabling switches and cable pull switches offer the emergency function across an application or are tethered to allow the operator movement within the safety application. • Operator interface Operator interface devices allow the operator to interact