tools that support compliance with safety standards, reduce the risk of injuries and improve productivity. Safety Automation Builder Safety Automation Builder is a FREE software tool to help simplify machine safety design and validation, reducing time and costs. Integration with RASWin Risk Assessment Software provides users with consistent, reliable, documented management of the Functional Safety Lifecycle. Safety Automation Builder streamlines safety system design, helping improve compliance and reduce costs by guiding users through the development of safety systems including safety system layout, product selection, and safety analysis to help meet machinery safety Performance Level (PL) requirements as outlined by global standard (EN) ISO 13849-1. RASWin RASWin software helps users manage the progression through the functional safety lifecycle, organizing information from each step of the process and machinery validation. RASWin links the steps of the safety lifecycle to avoid systematic failures, including safety function specifi cations, Performance Level requirements (PLr) assignment and PLr calculation, safety circuit validation, and documentation. SISTEMA Performance Level Calculator The SISTEMA tool, developed by the Institute for Occupational Safety and Health of the German Social Accident Insurance (IFA), automates calculation of the attained Performance Level from the safety-related parts of a machine’s control system to (EN) ISO 13849-1. Data for Rockwell Automation machinery safety products is available in the form of a library that can be used with the SISTEMA calculation tool. The combination of the two gives machinery and system designers comprehensive time-saving support in evaluating safety to (EN) ISO 13849-1. An export function from Safety Automation Builder allows the safety system design to be easily imported into SISTEMA in order to receive a third party verifi cation of the required Performance Level. 141 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery Pre-engineered Safety Functions for machines Machinery safety functions require multiple elements including a