the verifi cation of the achieved performance levels. The intent is to validate that the implemented safety function does in fact support the overall safety requirements for the machinery. Validation plays an important role throughout the safety system development and commissioning process. ISO/EN 13849-2:2012 sets the requirements for validation. It calls for a validation plan and discusses validation by testing and analysis techniques such as Fault Tree Analysis and Failure Modes, Effects and Criticality Analysis. Most of these requirements will apply to the manufacturer of the subsystem rather than the subsystem user. Machine Commissioning At the system or machine commissioning stage, validation of the safety functions must be carried out in all operating modes and should cover all normal and foreseeable abnormal conditions. Combinations of inputs and sequences of operation must also be taken into consideration. This procedure is important because it is always necessary to check that the system is suitable for actual operational and environmental characteristics. Some of those characteristics may be different from the ones anticipated at the design stage. 86 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 System Design According to IEC/EN 62061 Chapter 8: System Design According to IEC/EN 62061 IEC/EN 62061, “Safety of machinery - Functional safety of safety related electrical, electronic and programmable electronic control systems,” is the machinery specifi c implementation of IEC/EN 61508. It provides requirements that are applicable to the system level design of all types of machinery safety related electrical control systems and also for the design of non-complex subsystems or devices. The risk assessment results in a risk reduction strategy which in turn, identifi es the need for safety related control functions. These functions must be documented and must include a: • functional requirements specifi cation and a • safety integrity requirements specifi cation. The functional requirements include details like frequency of