with the application and offer additional dedicated safety functionality. Safety logic controllers • Safety relays (Single function or Confi gurable) Safety Relays check and monitor a safety system and either allow the machine to start or execute commands to stop the machine. Single-function safety relays are the most economical solution for smaller machines where a dedicated logic device is needed to complete the safety function. Modular and confi gurable monitoring safety relays are preferred where a large and diverse number of safeguarding devices and minimal zone control are required. • Integrated safety controllers Safety PLCs bring the benefi ts of traditional PLC systems to safety applications, replacing hard-wired relay systems that are normally required to bring automated processes to a safe state. Safety PLCs allow standard and safety-related programs to reside in a single controller chassis, providing fl exibility in programming as well as a familiar and easy-to-use environment for programmers. Safety controller solutions provide open and integrated control that will help to ensure machine safety and protection of your assets. 139 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery • Safety I/O devices The Guard I/O™ Safety products provide all the advantages of traditional distributed I/O but are designed for safety systems. They reduce wiring costs and startup time for machines and cells and are available with a variety of features for both in-cabinet and on-machine applications. Safety actuators • Safety contactors and Starters ArmorStart® distributed motor controllers achieves Category 4 safety functionality while providing a safety solution integrated into your DeviceNet™ On-Machine™ safety installation. The IEC safety contactors and control relays help protect personnel from unintended machine starts and loss of the safety function. • PowerFlex® AC drives PowerFlex drives are available with safety features. The PowerFlex 525 AC drives include embedded Safe Torque-Off as a standard