Validation Plan Verifi cation and validation play important roles in the avoidance of faults throughout the safety system design and development process. ISO 13849-2 sets the requirements for verifi cation and validation. The standard calls for a documented plan to confi rm that all of the safety functional requirements have been met. Verifi cation is an analysis of the resulting safety control system. The Performance Level (PL) of the safety control system is calculated to confi rm that the system meets the required Performance Level (PLr) specifi ed. The SISTEMA software is typically used to perform the calculations and assist with satisfying the requirements of ISO 13849-1. Validation is a functional test of the safety control system to demonstrate that the system meets the specifi ed requirements of the safety function. The safety control system is tested to confi rm that all of the safety-related outputs respond appropriately to their corresponding safety-related inputs. The functional test includes normal operating conditions in addition to potential fault injection of failure modes. A checklist is typically used to document the validation of the safety control system. Prior to validating the system, confi rm that the Guardmaster 440C-CR30 confi gurable safety relay has been wired and confi gured in accordance with the installation instructions. 129 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery Verifi cation and Validation Checklist General Machinery Information Description Machine Name/Model Number Machine Serial Number Customer Name Test Date Tester Names Schematic Drawing Number Input Devices 440N-Z21S16B Confi gurable Safety Relay 440C-CR30-22BBB Variable Frequency Drive Safety Contactor 100S-C23EJ23BC Safety Wiring and Relay Confi guration Test Step Verifi cation Pass/Fail Changes/ Modifi cations 1 Confi rm that all components’ specifi cations are suitable for the application. Refer to Basic Safety Principles and Well-tried Safety Principles from ISO 13849-2. 2 Visually inspect