ensure that access can only be gained while the machine is safe. Protective measures such as interlocked guard doors and/or trip systems will be required. The choice of protective device or system should be heavily infl uenced by the operating characteristics of the machine. This is extremely important as a system that impairs machine effi ciency will render itself liable to unauthorised removal or bypassing. 28 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety Strategy One of the most involved and complete interactions between people and machinery is during maintenance, troubleshooting and repair. For routine and minor interventions it may be possible to use safety related system based protective measures (see later description) to ensure safety. But across all regulations it is absolutely clear that, for any type of intervention such as signifi cant maintenance, repair, disassembly or work on power circuits, there should the both the provision and use of equipment that ensures the isolation and dissipation of energy (sometimes including gravitational force) at the machine. In this way the risk of unexpected start-up and exposure to energy sources can be eliminated. This is covered in many different regulations and standards. For example, see the previous text under “U S Regulations” that describes the “Lockout/Tagout” regulations and standard. European and ISO standard EN 1037 and ISO 14118 standards “Prevention of unexpected start-up” also give requirements. In terms of electrical technology IEC/EN 60204-1 and NFPA 79 also give guidance and requirements. Of course it is imperative that a proper working system that ensures all the correct procedures are followed. The following section describes some typical implementations. Prevention of unexpected power-up Prevention of unexpected power-up is covered by many standards. Examples include ISO14118, EN1037, ISO12100, OSHA 1910.147, ANSI Z244-1, CSA Z460-05, and AS 4024.1603. These standards have a common theme: the primary method of preventing