the ability of the safeguarding device to switch loads. Typically, the ratings for industrial devices are described as resistive or electromagnetic. A resistive load may be a heater type element. Electromagnetic loads are typically relays, contactors, or solenoids; where there is a large inductive characteristic of the load. Annex A of standard IEC 60947-5-1, describes the ratings for loads. 45 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery Designation Letter: The designation is a letter followed by a number, for example A300. The letter relates to the conventional enclosed thermal current and whether that current is direct or alternating. For example A represents 10 amps alternating current. The number stands for the rated insulation voltage. For example, 300 represents 300V. Utilization: The Utilization describes the types of loads the device is designed to switch. The utilizations relevant to IEC 60947-5 are shown in the following table. Utilization Description of Load Control of resistive loads and solid state loads with AC-12 isolation by opto-couplers AC-13 Control of solid state loads with transformer isolation AC-14 Control of small electromagnetic loads (less than 72 VA) AC-15 Electromagnetic loads greater than 72 VA Control of resistive loads and solid state loads with DC-12 isolation by opto-couplers DC-13 Control of electromagnets Control of electromagnetic loads having economy DC-14 resistors in circuit Thermal Current, Ith: The conventional enclosed thermal current is the value of current used for the temperature-rise tests of the equipment when mounted in a specifi ed enclosure. Rated Operational Voltage Ue and Current Ie: The rated operational current and voltage specify the making and breaking capacities of the switching elements under normal operating conditions. The Allen-Bradley Guardmaster products are typically rated at 125VAC, 250VAC and 24VDC. VA: The VA (Voltage x Amperage) ratings indicate the ratings of the switching elements when making