components fail. • Failure rate λ (lambda value) for electronic components. Often the failure rate is stated in FIT (Failures In Time). One FIT is one failure per 109 hours. Input Monitoring I2 L2 O2 signal Output signal λ etar eruliaF Premature Random failures Wear zone failures Constant low failure value 0 Time Diagnostics for fault detection Certain faults can be detected by diagnostics measures. These include plausibility monitoring, current and voltage monitoring, watchdog functionality, brief function test, etc. Since all faults cannot always be detected, the degree of fault detection must be defined. A Failure Mode and Effects Analysis (FMEA) should be performed for this purpose. For complex de- signs, measures and empirical values from standards provide assistance. Resistance to common cause failures The term “common cause failure” (CCF) is used, for example, to refer to both channels failing simultaneously due to interfer- ence. Appropriate measures shall be taken, e.g., isolated cable rout- ing, suppressors, diversity of components, etc. Input Monitoring I1 L1 O1 signal Output signal Fault ssorC nosirapmoc Monitoring Input I2 L2 O2 signal Output signal Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Risk reduction Process Specification Validated of the safety Safety- software The process combines the following elements that can have an functions related Validation software § effect: specification • Organization and competence • Rules governing design (e.g., specification templates, coding System Integration guidelines) design tests • Test concept and test criteria • Documentation and configuration management Module Module In the safety technology market, a process based on the V- design tests 1 model has proven particularly effective in practice for software design (see figure). Result Implemen- Verification tation Architecture of safety systems In ISO 13849-1, the safety-related architecture is interpreted with the aid of the categories. These basic principles are also 2 retained in North American standards through