necessary protective field size/height for the protective device concerned. • Integrate the protective devices as stated in the instruction handbook and as necessary for the level of safety. 2 Safety laser scanners Logic units • Choose the correct logic unit based on the number of safety functions and the logic depth. • Use certified function blocks and keep your design clear. Interlocking devices: Contactors 3) • Have the design and the documentation thoroughly checked (principle of counter checking by a second person). 3 With separate actuator c Modular safety controllers and With actuator for Motion control locking devices Frequency inverters 4) For switching cam, turning lever Brakes 2) Magnetically coded RFID coded Pneumatic valves 1) Inductive Emergency stop pushbutton Enabling switch Safe sensor cascade Motor feedback systems Hydraulic valves 1) Encoders Photoelectric sensors Magnetic and inductive sensors Service solutions from SICK LifeTime Services (g page i-1 in Annex i “How SICK supports you”) With the approval of: 1) Bosch Rexroth AG, 2) FESTO AG & Co. KG, 3) Eaton Industries GmbH, 4) SEW-EURODRIVE GmbH & Co. KG. - All SICK products are listed in our online product finder at http://www.sickusa.com/ 3-76 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Summary: Designing the safety function General • Draft a safety concept. During this process, take into account features of the machine, features of the surroundings, human aspects, features of the design, and features of protective devices. • Design the safety functions with the required level of safety. Safety functions are formed by the subsystems sensor, logic, and actuator. • Determine the level of safety for each subsystem from the safety-related parameters of structure, reliability, diagnostics, resistance, and process conditions. Properties and application of protective devices • Determine the necessary properties for