Hydraulic switch Valves 1) Motor feedback system, encoder Photoelectric switches, magnetic and induc- tive sensors Service solutions fromSICK With the approval of: 1) Bosch Rexroth AG, 2) FESTO SE & Co. KG, 3) Eaton Industries GmbH, 4) SEW-EURODRIVE GmbH & Co. KG. 126 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION NOTE - All SICK products and service solutions are listed in our online product finder at www.sick.com. Summary: Designing the safety function General • Develop a concept for the required safety functions. In this concept, consider the characteristics of the machine, design, surroundings, protective device, and also take into account human characteristics. • Design appropriate safety functions for the required safety level. Safety functions comprise sensor, logic, and power control element subsystems. • Determine the safety level of each subsystem based on safety aspects (structure, reliability, diagnostics, resistance, process conditions). Properties and application of protective devices • Determine the necessary properties for your protective device. Do you need, for example, one or more elec‐ tro-sensitive protective devices (ESPE), physical guards, movable physical guards or position fixing protective devices? • Determine the correct positioning and dimensions for each protective device, in particular the safety distance (minimum distance) and the necessary protective field size/height for the protective device concerned. • Integrate the protective devices as stated in the instruction handbook and as necessary for the level of safety. Logic units • Choose a suitable logic unit based on the number of safety functions and the logic depth. • Use certified function blocks and keep your design clear. • Have the design and the documentation thoroughly checked (principle of counter checking by a second person). 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 127 Subject to change