Social Accident Insurance In Germany, the Berufsgenossenschaften and other organizations cover the legal accident insurance obligation. The Berufsgenossenschaften are organized by branches so that specific requirements in the individual sectors of the economy can be better met. 20 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice § – LAWS, DIRECTIVES, STANDARDS Insurance companies Many insurance companies have departments that offer expert specialist advice, particularly in relation to the prevention of liability risks that may result from ignorance or failure to comply with legal requirements. Market surveillance In the states of the EU and EFTA, work safety and market surveillance are the responsibility of national authorities. • In Germany, this is the responsibility of the “Länder” agencies for occupational health and safety. • Austria has a range of occupational safety inspectorates. Machine manufacturers can also contact national authorities for expert advice in relation to questions about the safety of machinery and safety at work. • In Switzerland, market supervision is the responsibility of the State Secretariat for Economic Affairs (SECO). The Swiss National Accident Insurance Fund (Suva), noted for its high levels of technical expertise, is responsible for enforcement. NOTE Important addresses can be found in the annex in section "Useful links", page 168. 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 21 Subject to change without notice 1 – Risk assessment When designing a machine, the possible risks must be assessed and, where necessary, protective measures must be applied to protect the operator from any hazards that may still be present. The process of risk assessment supports the machine manufacturer in this task. A risk assessment is a sequence of logical steps that facilitate the systematic analysis and evaluation of risks. The results of the risk assessment must be taken into