bodies Companies that want to know whether their machines are com­ Each EC member state has the obligation to nominate test bod­ pliant with the applicable European directives and standards ies as per the minimum requirements defined in the Machinery can obtain advice on safety aspects in the UK from the HSE Directive, and to notify the European Commission in Brussels of and DTI, for example. these test bodies for listing. Only these test bodies are authorized to perform EC type Accredited test bodies examinations and to issue EC type examination certificates for Accredited test bodies are test bodies that certify compliance the machinery and safety components listed in Annex IV of the with the test procedures and test criteria from recognized Machinery Directive. Not all notified test bodies can test every national institutions. These test bodies may include institu­ type of product or machine. Many test bodies are only notified tions for occupational safety and health which normally employ for specific areas. highly competent specialists. Insurances Berufsgenossenschaften (professional associations)/ Insurance companies IFA — Institute for Occupational Safety and Health of the Many insurance companies have departments that offer expert German Social Accident Insurance specialist advice, particularly in relation to the prevention of In Germany the Berufsgenossenschaften and other organiza­ liability risks that may result from ignorance or failure to comply tions cover the legal accident insurance obligation. The Berufs­ with legal requirements. genossenschaften are organized by branches so that specific requirements in the individual sectors of the economy can be better met. Market surveillance – Authorities In the states of the EU and EFTA, work safety and market sur­ • In Switzerland, market supervision is the responsibility of veillance are the responsibility of national authorities. the State Secretariat for Economic Affairs (SECO). The Swiss • In Germany, this is