enable and subsequent shutdown of the contactor or the pulse inhibit (stop category 1) can reduce the braking distance. t Emergency stop Speed Mains contactor Figure 106: Disconnection of the supply of power by the mains contactor after emergency stop and initiation of a braking ramp Speed detection with external monitoring units To monitor the drive, external monitoring units require various signals providing information about the current movement parameters. In this case the signal sources are sensors and encoders. These must either be designed as safe sensors or with redundancy, depending on the required safety level PL or SIL. Alternatively, standstill monitoring can also be implemented by reading back the voltage induced by the motor coasting down. This technique also functions with speed-controlled drives. Safety sub-functions integrated in the drive Safety functions are implemented by safety-related parts of control systems (SRP/CS). They include the sub-func‐ tions of measuring (sensor), processing (logic unit), and switching or actuation (power control element). In this context, safety-related functions integrated in the drive are to be considered safety sub-functions. They are generally divided into two groups: • Safety-related stopping and braking functions: These functions are used to stop the drive safely (e.g., safe stop). • Safe monitoring functions: These functions are used for the safe monitoring of the drive during operation (e.g., safely reduced speed). In general, the drive monitoring functions necessary depend on the application. Boundary conditions include parameters such as the necessary braking distance, the presence of kinetic energy, etc. The shutdown response varies depending on the selected safety sub-function. For example, on a stop request, safe torque off (STO) results in uncontrolled coasting down of the movement. During a safe stop (SS1 or SS2), controlled retardation is initiated. A combination of element functions may also need to be implemented as a suitable