the cables selected correctly • Contactors • Relays • Circuit breakers Electronic • Individual components, e.g.: As listed under "Electromechanical" Exclusion of faults not possible. • Transistors In addition: Reliable action can only be achieved • Resistors • Temperature fluctuations using control system concepts, not by • Capacitors • Electromagnetic interference component selection. • Coils coupled via cables or fields • Highly integrated components, e.g., integrated circuits (IC) Microprocessor- • Microprocessors • Installation fault in the hardware • Measures to prevent faults: controlled • Software • Systematic failures including • Structured design common mode failures • Program analysis • Programming errors • Simulation • Handling errors • Measures to control faults: • Operating errors • Redundant hardware and • Manipulation/tampering software • Viruses • RAM/ROM test • CPU test Translation of text from: Alfred Neudörfer, Konstruieren sicherheitsgerechter Produkte, Springer Verlag, Berlin u. a., ISBN 978-3642191886 (4th Edition 2011) (English version “The Design of Safe Machines” planned for 2015: ISBN 978-3-540-35791-9) The safety-related input elements have been described above Fluid control systems are often implemented as electropneu- as the safety sensors (protective devices). For this reason, only matic or electrohydraulic control systems. In other words, the the logic unit and the actuators are described below. electrical signals are converted to fluid energy by valves to To assess the safety aspects of the actuators, reference is move cylinders and other actuators. made to the power control elements. Faults and failures in ac- tuator/work elements are normally excluded. (A motor without any power typically goes to the safe state.) - Connection diagrams for the integration of protective devices can be found at http://www.sickusa.com/ Risk reduction Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Logic units In a logic unit different input signals from safety functions are Warning: Depending on the required reliability, the signals from linked together