every protective device has to be integrated into the machine controller for this purpose. Fixed physical guards (fences, barriers, covers), for example, are not integrated into the machine controller but if designed correctly, such guards fulfill the requirement of the safety function. Functional safety When protective devices are integrated into the machine controller, the risk reduction relies on the correct functioning of the controller. In this case, we refer to this as functional safety. When implementing functional safety, the required safety level must be determined for each safety function. The requirements of each particular protective measure must be implemented using suitable components. Validation The validation of all technical protective measures ensures that the safety functions reliably reduce the risk. The design of technical protective measures and safety functions and the methodology for their implementation in the control system form the content of the next chapter (sub-steps 3a to 3e). 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 41 Subject to change without notice 3 – TECHNICAL PROTECTIVE MEASURES Definition of the safety functions Determination of the required safety level Design the safety function Technology, selection and use of protective devices Positioning and sizing of protective devices Integration of protective devices in the control system Verification of the safety functions Validation of all safety functions Figure 18: From definition to validation of the safety functions 42 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3A – DEFINING THE SAFETY FUNCTIONS 3a – Defining the safety functions The safety functions describe how risks are reduced by protective measures. At least one safety function must be defined for each hazard that has not been eliminated by the design. It is necessary to precisely describe the safety function in order to achieve the required safety