interlocking arrangement When using mechanical interlocking devices, reliable actuation is important. The use of positive mechanical actuation in an interlocking device ensures that the position switch is actuated when the guard is opened and reduces possibilities for manipulation. Positive mechanical actuation is the forced movement of the mechanical components of the interlocking device (safety switch) through direct contact with mechanical components or with the physical guard (e.g., protective door). 64 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Table 23: Example: Positive mechanical actuation Safe: Opening the protective door moves the mechanical Faulty design: The position switch may not always open the plunger of the position switch (positive mechanical actuation). safety circuit, e.g., if the plunger is sticking due to incrusta‐ This opens the safety circuit. tions or lubricating oil that has solidified. Source: BG Feinmechanik und Elektrotechnik, BGI 575 Positive opening A contact element is positive-opening if the switching contacts are isolated immediately by a defined movement of the actuating element by non-elastic parts (e.g., springs). The use of positive opening normally closed contacts in position switches with positive mechanical actuation ensures that electrical circuit is still isolated even if the contacts are worn or other electrical faults have occurred. The following requirements also apply where positive-opening mechanical position switches are concerned: • The actuating travel shall be set to suit the positive-opening travel. • The minimum plunger travel specified by the manufacturer shall be observed in order to provide the switching distance required for positive opening. Figure 42: Symbol for positive opening normally closed contacts in accordance with IEC 60947-5-1, Annex K NOTE The use of both redundantly monitored electronic outputs from electro-sensitive position switches is considered equivalent to positive opening. If a type 3