Konstruieren sicherheitsgerechter Produkte, Springer-Verlag, Berlin u. a., ISBN 978-3642191886 (4th Edition 2011) The general term “control system” describes the entire chain Safety-related parts of the control system (SRP/CS) are of a control system. The control system comprises an input ele- designed to perform safety functions. For this reason, special ment, logic unit, power control element as well as the actuator/ requirements are placed on their reliability and their resistance work element. to faults. They are based on the principles of preventing and controlling faults. 3 c 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 3-65 Subject to change without notice Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Risk reduction Control system Aspects relating to safety technology Principle of op- Typical components Interfering factors Explanations eration of the control § system 1 2 3 c 3-66 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice diulF Pneumatic • Multiway valves • Changes in energy levels Mostly designed as electropneumatic • Vent valves • Purity and water content of the control systems. • Manual shut-off valves compressed air Service unit necessary for conditioning • Filters with water trap compressed air. • Hoses Hydraulic • Accumulators • Purity Mostly designed as electrohydraulic • Pressure limiters • Viscosity control systems. • Multiway valves • Temperature of the pressurized fluid Measures necessary to limit the pres- • Filters sure and temperature in the system • Level gauges and to filter the medium. • Temperature gauges • Hoses • Threaded fittings lacirtcelE Electromechani- • Control switches: • Protection class of the devices Due to their design and unambiguous cal • Position switches • Selection, dimensioning, and switch positions, parts are insensitive • Selector switches placement of the components and to moisture, temperature fluctuations, • Pushbuttons devices and electromagnetic interference if • Switchgear: • Design and routing of