(STO) results in uncontrolled coasting down of the move- § eters. In this case, the signal sources are sensors and encod- ment. During a safe stop (SS1 or SS2), drive-controlled motion ers. These must either be designed as safe sensors or with ramp down is initiated. A combination of drive-supported safety redundancy, depending on the PL or SIL. functions may also need to be implemented as a suitable measure to achieve adequate risk reduction. Alternatively, standstill monitoring can also be implemented by reading back the voltage induced by the motor coasting down. Possible interfaces for the implementation of safety sub-func- This technique also functions with speed-controlled drives. tions integrated directly in the drive are: 1 • Discrete 24-V signals Element safety functions integrated in the drive controller • Control communication (channel 1)/24 V discrete (chan- Safety functions are implemented by safety-related parts of nel 2) control systems (SRP/CS). They include the sub-functions of • Safe communication systems (fieldbus systems/network measuring (sensor), processing (logic unit), and switching or interface) changing (actuator). In this context, safety-related functions “Control communication” refers to a standard control system 2 integrated in the drive controller are to be considered element sending a setpoint for rotational speed or position to the drive safety functions. via a fieldbus or network that is not of safe design. They are generally divided into two groups: The majority of element safety functions for variable speed • Safe stopping and braking functions: These functions are drives available today are specified in the harmonized stan- used to stop the drive safely (e.g., safe stop) dard IEC 61800-5-2 “Adjustable speed electrical power drive 3 • Safe movement functions: These functions are used for the systems,” Part 5-2 “Safety requirements. Functional.” Drive safe monitoring of the drive during operation (e.g., safely controllers that meet this