and separate monitoring of multiple areas by evaluating fields simultaneously and by com‐ municating with the controller through multiple safe cut-off paths. This feature can be used, for example, to adapt the monitored area to the speed of a vehicle. Safety laser scanners use individually emitted pulses of light in precise directions and do not continuously cover the area to be monitored. Resolutions (detection capabilities) up to 20 mm are achieved through this operating principle. With the active scanning principle, safety laser scanners do not need external receivers or reflectors. Safety laser scanners also have to be able to reliably detect objects with extremely low reflec‐ tivity (e.g., black work clothing). The international stand‐ ard IEC 61496-3 states the safety requirements for AOPDDRs. Figure 47: Simultaneous monitoring of multiple protective fields Camera-based protective devices (VBPD) VBPDs are camera-based protective devices and use image capturing and processing technologies for safety detection of persons (see figure 48). Various principles can be used to detect persons, including: • Interruption of the light retro-reflected by a retro- reflector • Travel time measurement of the light reflected by an object • Monitoring of changes from background patterns • Detection of persons based on human characteris‐ tics The various technical specifications (TS) and technical reports (TR) of the IEC 61496-4 series of standards contain the requirements and characteristics of VBPDs. Figure 48: Protecting people when leaning into the hazardous area of a collaborative robot using a 3D vision-based camera system Detection capability (resolution) of optoelectronic protective devices The detection capability is defined as the limit for the sensor parameter that causes the electro-sensitive protec‐ tive equipment (ESPE) to trigger. In practice, this is about the size of the smallest object detected by the ESPE within the defined monitored area (protective field). 72 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide