implementation of more complex safety applications is sim- namic signals) or measures to control faults (such as multiple plified. The certified safety relay also reduces the effort involved channel signal processing), purely electronic control systems in validating the safety functions. can achieve the necessary degree of reliability. 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 3-67 Subject to change without notice Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Risk reduction Logic unit with software-based components Reliable data transmission Similar to automation technology, safety technology has devel- Bus systems are used to transmit signals between the control oped from hard-wired auxiliary contactors through safety relays system and sensors or actuators on the machine. Bus systems § (some with configurable safety logic for which parameters can are also responsible for the transmission of states between be set) to complex certified safety PLCs. The concept of “proven different parts of control systems. A bus system makes wiring components” and “proven safety principles” are now available easier and as a result reduces the possible errors. It is reason- using electrical and programmable electronic systems. able to use bus systems already used in the market for safety- The logical operators for the safety function are implemented in related applications. the software. Software is to be differentiated from firmware — A detailed study of different faults and errors in hardware and 1 developed and certified by the manufacturer of the control de- software has shown that such faults mostly result in the same vice — and the actual safety application, which is developed by few transmission faults on bus systems. the integrator using the language(s) supported by the firmware. Parameterization Repetition Parameterization is the selection of properties from a defined Sender Receiver 2 pool of functionality by selector switch/software parameters at the time of commissioning. Loss Features: low logic depth,