and the timely detection and rectification of resulting damage. 3 The results of inspections shall be recorded and kept at the disposal of the authorities concerned. They must be retained for a suitable period of time. When work equipment is used outside the undertaking it shall be accompanied by physical evidence that the last inspection has been carried out. 4 Member States shall determine the conditions under which such inspections are made. Significant modification of machinery Machines usually have a service life of several decades. The further development of technologies and the requirements of the market lead to a continuous improvement of machines and production systems. In many cases, machines are also modified to fit existing production lines and systems. Such modifications may include features and functions that can have a significant impact on the safety of the machine or production line. National regulations may impose specific requirements on the modification of existing machinery, while others are limited to general mandatory clauses for the user (employer). The European Machinery Directive also requires that significantly modified machinery comply with the essential health and safety requirements. The Machinery Directive does not clarify, however, what is to be considered a significant modification. The national European occupational health and safety authorities are given the freedom to define the criteria for a significant modifica‐ tion. The following methodology was developed jointly by industry and occupational health and safety authorities in Germany and has been in use since 2010. General requirements When a machine is modified, the procedure described in the Methodology section must be performed to deter‐ mine if the modification(s) is (are) significant. Legal note: Limiting the risk assessment and reduction to the modified parts and/or zones of the machine may not be sufficient to comply with national legal requirements. Methodology The following steps