unit for operating functions for safety functions Power control Power control elements elements Driving/working elements Driving/working elements without hazard with possible hazard In this chapter ... Development of safety concept...3-13 The safety-related parts of control Control systems shall be designed to systems are to be selected to suit the avoid hazardous situations. A machine Functional layout of a machine safety functions and the necessary level shall only be put into operation by the control .......................3-13 of safety. These parts include sensors, intentional actuation of a control device Technology, selection, and use logic units, power control elements, for provided for this purpose. of safeguarding ...............3-17 example, as well as drive and work ele- If a machine restart will pose a hazard, Positioning and dimensioning of ments. This selection is generally made then restarting by switching on the sup- protective devices..............3-44 in the form of a safety concept. ply voltage shall be excluded by techni- Application of reset and restart...3-64 A safety function can be implemented cal means. If a machine restart will not Integration of protective devices using one or more safety-related pose a hazard, then restarting without into the control system..........3-65 component(s). Several safety functions operator intervention (automatic restart) Fluid control systems ...........3-74 can share one or more components. is permitted. Safety-related pneumatics.......3-75 Product overview for safety technology....................3-76 Summary.....................3-77 Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Risk reduction Subsystems of the safety-related part of a machine control system Event Signal Signal Signal Movement ยง Power control Sensor Logic unit Drive element element The drive elements shall be designed according to "good engineering 1 practice." They are only part of the safety function if their Subsystems of the safety-related part of a machine control system failure may lead to a hazard (e.g., suspended axes). Decisive factors The following features are to be taken into