The requirements for systematic safety integrity Avoidance of failures ° Management of systematic errors ° Here – similar to ISO 13849-1 – to determine the PL the safety function is first broken down into function blocks and then transferred to subsystems. Figure 115: Subsystems in the safety chain: safety light curtain. Logic unit, contactor Safety integrity of the hardware When considering the overall safety function, the safety integrity of the hardware is determined by the following factors ... 138 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice • The lowest SIL of a subsystem restricts the maximum SIL that can be achieved by the overall system. • The PFH of the overall control system from the sum of the individual PFH does not exceed the values in D D Figure see figure 109 “Verification of functional safety”. Example In the figure above, all subsystems achieve SIL3. The addition of the PFH values does not exceed 1 × 10–7. The relevant D measures for systematic safety integrity are in place. Therefore, the safety function achieves SIL3. Systematic safety integrity When different subsystems are interconnected to create a control system, additional measures for systematic safety integrity must be taken to avoid systematic errors. Measures for avoiding systematic hardware errors include, amongst other things, the following: • Design in accordance with the functional safety plan • Correct selection, combination, arrangement, assembly, and installation of subsystems, including cabling, wiring, and other connections • Use within the manufacturer's specifications • Compliance with application instructions provided by the manufacturer (catalog data, installation instructions, and application of proven practical experience, for example) • Observance of requirements with regard to electrical equipment in accordance with IEC 60204-1 Furthermore, consideration must be given to the control of systematic errors, for example through