the sections of the regulation, such as noise, equipment shall be inspected regularly, maintained and fire prevention, vibrations, etc. The NOMs are similar to OSHA repaired properly regulations. NOM-004-STPS is the official Mexican standard that defines the requirements of protection systems and safety devices for machinery and equipment used in the workplace. Brazil regulatory requirements The regulatory standards which address safety ment shall be provided with devices for starting and stopping and occupational health in Brazil, known as NRs and others that may be necessary for the prevention of labor (“Normas Regulamentadoras”), are mandatory accidents, especially regarding the risk of accidental activation. for public and private companies, public institutions of direct This regulation also states that it is prohibited to manufacture, and indirect administration, as well as government organiza­ import, sell, lease and use machinery and equipment that do tions having employees under the Labor Laws Consolidation not meet the provisions of this article. Furthermore, NR 3 de­ — CLT (“Consolidação das Leis do Trabalho”), a set of laws that clares that emergency embargo or ban measures must be ap­ includes the NRs. The main NR regulation addressing safety of plied upon discovery of work places where there is serious and machinery is the NR 12, which was revised in 2010. imminent risk to the worker, and equipment cannot be returned In addition to the NRs, there are additional laws addressing to work until the safety measures indicated by NR 12 and other safety of the workplace, including Law No. 6.514, which dates applicable standards have been fulfilled. from 1977 and belongs to the Decree­Law (“Decreto­Lei”) No. 5452 from 1943. This law declares that machinery and equip­ Below is a link to local authorities (Portuguese only): - http://portal.mte.gov.br/legislacao/normas­regulamentadoras­1.htm 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK §§--33 Subject to change without