technical documentation file for the machine; in particular, this shall include all safety­related design documents. • You shall supply operating instructions with the product in the official language of the country of use. The original version is also to be supplied with the product. • You shall complete a declaration of conformity and mark the machine or the safety component with the CE mark. §§--88 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Laws, regulations, directives, standards Standards Laws, regulations, directives, standards Standards Standards This Guide essentially references the most prominent national standards in the Americas. A list of relevant standards is provided in the annex. § Relevant international and local standards are listed in Annex i starting g i­6. Standards are agreements made between the various inter­ dards has taken place. Depending on the place the machine or ested parties (manufacturers, users, test bodies, occupational product is to be used, different legal stipulations may apply that health and safety authorities, and governments). Contrary to make it necessary to apply different standards. The correct se­ popular opinion, standards are not prepared by or agreed upon lection of the standards to be applied is an aid for the machine by governments or authorities. Standards describe the state­of­ suppliers, integrators, and users for compliance with the legal the­art at the time they are prepared. Over the last 100 years, a requirements. change from national standards to globally applicable stan­ Global standardization organizations and structures ISO (International Standardization IEC (International Electrotechnical Organization) Commission) ISO is a worldwide network of standardization IEC is a global organization that prepares and organizations from 157 countries. ISO pre­ publishes international standards in the area pares and publishes international standards of electrical technology (e.g., electronics, com­ focused on non­electrical technologies. munications, electromagnetic compatibility, power