supply of power to the drive shall be interrupted. 2 - Stop functions: NFPA 79, IEC 60204-1 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 2-11 Subject to change without notice Safe design Risk reduction Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) The European EMC Directive defines “electromagnetic compat- There are interference limits for the industrial sector and for ibility” as “the ability of a device, unit of equipment or system residential areas. In the industrial sector, the requirements for to function satisfactorily in its electromagnetic environment susceptibility are higher, but higher interference emissions are without introducing intolerable electromagnetic disturbances to also allowed. For this reason, components that meet radio fre- anything in that environment.” quency (RF) interference requirements for the industrial sector The machine and the components used shall be selected and may cause RF interference in residential areas. The following verified so that they are immune to the expected disturbances. table gives example minimum interference field strengths in 1 Increased requirements apply to safety components. various application areas. Electromagnetic interferences can be caused by: Typical minimum interference field strengths in the frequency range from 900 to 2000 MHz • Fast, transient, electrical disturbances (bursts) • Surge voltages, e.g., caused by lightning strikes to the grid • Electromagnetic fields Area of application Minimum interference field strength for immunity • High-frequency disturbance (neighboring cables) 2 • Electrostatic discharge (ESD) Entertainment electronics 3 V/m Household electrical appliances 3 V/m Information technology 3 V/m equipment Medical equipment 3 … 30 V/m Industrial electronics 10 V/m Safety components 10 … 30 V/m Vehicle electronics Up to 100 V/m Example: Typical distances from mobile phone systems for different field strengths Area of application 3 V/m 10 V/m 100 V/m Note Wireless home phone Approx. 1.5 m Approx. 0.4 m ≤ 1 cm Base station or hand-held unit Cell phone