with interlocking devices. A key inserted outside the hazardous area enables automatic opera- tion and keeps the door locked. Example: Trapped key system 2 3 c 1 2 3 3-26 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Electro-sensitive protective equipment (ESPE) With electro-sensitive protective equipment (ESPE), in contrast ESPE technologies to "guards," protection is not based on the physical separation Electro-sensitive protective equipment can implement detec- of persons at risk from the hazard itself. Protection is achieved tion of persons through various principles: optical, capacitive, through temporal separation. As long as there is somebody in ultrasound, microwaves and passive infrared detection. a defined area, no dangerous machine functions are initiated, In practice, optical protective devices have been proven effec- and such functions are stopped if already underway. A certain tive over many years and in large numbers. amount of time, referred to as the "stopping/run-down time," is required to stop these functions. Optoelectronic protective devices The ESPE must detect the approach of a person to the hazard The most common electro-sensitive protective devices are zone in a timely manner and depending on the application, the optoelectronic devices such as: presence of the person in the hazard zone. • Safety light curtains and photoelectric switches (AOPD: ac- The standards IEC 61496-1, UL 61496-1, ANSI B11.19, RIA TR tive optoelectronic protective device) R15.406, and CSA Z432 define safety-related requirements for • Safety laser scanners (AOPDDR: active optoelectronic pro- ESPE independent of their technology or principle of operation. tective device responsive to diffuse reflection) • Camera-based protective devices (VBPD: vision based pro- What are the benefits of electro-sensitive protective equip- tective devices) ment? If an operator frequently or regularly has to access a machine and is therefore exposed to a hazard, the