indicates the number of switching cycles until 10% of components fail. 10 • Failure rate λ (lambda value) for electronic components. The failure rate is often expressed in FITs (Failures In Time). One FIT is one failure per 109 hours. Early failures Random failures, Wear zone constant low failure rate 0 Time Figure 37: Failure rate λ (bathtub curve) Diagnostics for detecting faults Some faults can be detected by diagnostic measures. Diagnostic measures include plausibility monitoring, current and voltage monitoring, watchdog functionality, brief function test. Since all faults cannot always be detected, the degree of fault detection must be defined. A Failure Mode and Effects Analysis (FMEA) should be performed for this purpose. For complex designs, measures and empirical values from standards provide assistance. Resistance to common cause faults The term common cause fault is used, for example, to refer to both channels failing simultaneously due to interference. Appropriate measures must be taken to prevent this, e.g., isolated cable routing, suppressors, diversity of compo‐ nents. 58 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice I1 Input L1 Monitoring O1 signal Output signal Fault I2 Input L2 Monitoring O2 signal Output signal ssorC nosirapmoc 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Figure 38: Structure of a dual-channel safety component with a fault Process The process brings the following influencing elements together: • Organization and competence • Design rules (e.g. specification templates, coding guidelines) • Test concept and test criteria • Documentation and configuration management In the safety technology area, a process based on the V-model has proven particularly effective in practice for software (see figure). Specification of the Validated safety functions Safety-related software Validation software specification Draft system Integration tests Module design Module tests Result Implementation Verification Figure 39: V-model with the development and testing