elements. In this case, the safety level depends on various safety-related aspects, see "Safety-related aspects of subsystems", page 56. Safety-related aspects of subsystems The safety level of a subsystem is dependent on various safety-related aspects, for example: • Structure • Reliability of the components/devices • Diagnostics for detecting faults • Resistance to common cause failures • Process erutcurtS ytilibaileR scitsongaiD ecnatsiseR ssecorP 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Safety level Figure 36: Aspects for determining the safety level of a subsystem Structure To reduce the susceptibility of a safety component to fault by means of a better structure, the safety-related functions can be executed in parallel on more than one channel. Dual-channel safety-related systems are common in the machine safety sector (see figure below). Each channel can perform the intended safety function. The two channels can be of diverse design (e.g., one channel uses electromechanical components, the other only electronics). Instead of a second equivalent channel, the second channel can also have a pure monitoring function. 56 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice Table 18: Structure of single-channel and dual-channel safety-related systems Single-channel safety-related systems Dual-channel safety-related systems I Input L Output O I1 Input L1 Monitoring O1 signal signal signal Output signal I2 Input L2 Monitoring O2 signal Output signal ssorC nosirapmoc 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION The structure is described in the standard ISO 13849-11) according to the categories described below. Table 19: Categories according to ISO 13849-1 with description Category B/Category 1 Category B / 1 Normal operation Operation with fault No fault detection. The occurrence of a fault will result in a risk. Clear The risk can be minimized with reli‐ Protective field Occupied able and proven components (Cate‐ gory 1). Time Risk Signal output On