sensor that detects the position of the material that is blocking access to the hazardous area. • Interruption and/or restoration of the power sup‐ ply to the sensors for material detection must not result in the selection of an active protective field that is not suitable for the machine state. • The largest protective field is automatically acti‐ vated immediately after the material passes Figure 66: Schematic representation of protective field through the active protective field. switching using safety light curtains (AOPD) for the passage of materials • The automatic selection of the active protective field must not be triggered by a ground fault or an interruption in the signal lines or power supply to the material detection sensor(s). Figure 67: Schematic representation of protective field switching using vertically mounted safety laser scanners (AOPDDR) for the passage of materials Fixed position protective devices Fixed position protective devices are non-physical guards that ensure a person is located outside the hazardous area, for example buttons, foot switches or two-hand controls. NOTE A comprehensive overview of position fixing protective devices is given in: - Alfred Neudörfer: Konstruieren sicherheitsgerechter Produkte, Springer-Verlag, Berlin u. a., ISBN 978-3-662-62703-7 (8th edition 2020) 84 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Two-hand control device The hazardous function is only triggered by deliberate actuation of two control switches (e.g., pushbuttons) and ends as soon as one of the control switches is no longer actuated. A two-hand control device can only protect one operator at a time. If several operators operate a machine, a separate two-hand control device must be installed for each operator. There are several types of two-hand control devices. The distinguishing characteristics are listed below. Figure 68: Example use of a two-hand device.