Ambient light, light interfering with sensors, welding sparks • Reflective surfaces • Contamination (mist, chips) • Temperature range • Moisture, weather 3-14 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Safety-related parameters for subsystems The safety level of a subsystem is dependent on various safety- related parameters. These include: • Structure • Reliability of the components/devices • Diagnostics for detecting faults • Resistance to common cause faults • Process 3 c 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 3-15 Subject to change without notice erutcurtS ytilibaileR sisongaiD ecnatsiseR ssecorP Safety level Structure To reduce the susceptibility of a safety component to fault by means of a better structure, the safety-related functions can be executed in parallel on more than one channel. Dual-channel safety components are common in the machine safety sector (see figure below). Each channel can perform the intended safety function. The two channels can be of diverse design (e.g., one channel uses electromechanical components, the other only electronics). Instead of a second equivalent channel, the second channel can also have a pure monitoring function. Single-channel safety components Input Output I L O signal signal Dual-channel safety components Input Monitoring I1 L1 O1 signal Output signal ssorC nosirapmoc Reliability of the components/devices Any failure of a safety component will result in an interruption to the production process. For this reason, it is important to use reliable components. The more reliable a component is, the lower the probability of a dangerous failure. Reliability is a measure of random failures within the life limit; it is normally provided in the following formats: • B figures for electromechanical or pneumatic compo- 10 nents. Here, life limit is determined by switching frequency. B indicates the number of switching cycles until 10% of 10