Sender power approx. 10 W Basic design rules to avoid EMC problems • Ensure continuous equipotential bonding by means of conductive connections between parts of machinery and systems. • Apply physical separation of the control and measuring components from the supply unit, e.g., power supply units, contactors, actuators, inverters. • Do not use the shielding to carry equipotential bonding currents. • Use short shields and apply to the full surface area. • Connect any functional earth (FE) provided. • Terminate existing communication lines properly according to the manufacturer's specifications, e.g., using a terminator. Twisted cables are often required to transmit data (fieldbus). Example: Connecting shield correctly Example: Providing equipotential bonding Correct: Shield is short and Wrong: So-called “pig tails” fully tethered 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 37 Subject to change without notice 2 SAFE DESIGN (INHERENTLY SAFE DESIGN) Power section Control section Motors, Network Physical Solenoid valves Measuring transducers, actuators separation probes, detectors, sensor cables, bus cables Figure 16: Example of physical separation NOTE - EMC standards: IEC 61000-1 to -4 - EMC requirements on safety components: IEC 61496-1, IEC 62061 Fluid technology Fluid technology is the generic term used for all processes where energy is transmitted using gases or liquids. The generic term is used because liquids and gases behave similarly. Fluid technology describes processes and systems for the transmission of power using fluids in closed pipe systems. Subsystems Every fluid-related system comprises the following subsystems: • Compressing: compressor/pump • Conditioning: filters • Pumping: pipework/hoses • Controlling: valve • Driving: cylinder Pressure is established in any fluid-related system by pumping the fluid against loads. If the load increases, the pressure also increases. Fluid technology is applied in engineering in hydraulics (energy transmission using hydraulic oils) and in pneumat‐ ics (energy transmission using compressed air).