solutions is that the deterministic of valves; these valves act as power control elements. Typi- nature of the pneumatics makes it relatively easy to set up ele- cal safety-related functions can be allocated to a machine’s ment safety functions that are purely pneumatic. Aerate Hold pressure Pressure and force Vent reduction Initial setting, standstill 3 Setup and Normal operation c service mode Two-hand Protection against operation tampering, protection against Emergency operation unexpected starting Reduction in Switch to Stop, hold, block Reverse speed zero force movement movement Direct pneumatic effect on movement Indirect pneumatic effect on movement Source: Festo AG & Co. KG – Safety Technology Guidelines 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 3-75 Subject to change without notice Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Risk reduction Product overview: Safety technology for machine safety Summary: Designing the safety function Sensors Logic Power control elements General § • Draft a safety concept. During this process, take into account features of the machine, features of the surroundings, human Safety light curtains aspects, features of the design, and features of protective devices. Electrical drives with • Design the safety functions with the required level of safety. Safety functions are formed by the subsystems sensor, logic, element safety and actuator. Safety camera sub-functions 1 • Determine the level of safety for each subsystem from the safety-related parameters of structure, reliability, diagnostics, systems resistance, and process conditions. 1 Safety relays Properties and application of protective devices Multiple light beam safety devices • Determine the necessary properties for your protective device. Do you need, for example, one or more electro-sensitive protective devices (ESPE), guards, movable guards or fixed position protective devices? Single-beam safety Safety pneumatic • Determine the correct positioning and dimensions for each protective device, in particular the safety distance (minimum devices valves 2) distance) and the