your specific application. §§--1100 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Laws, regulations, directives, standards International/European Standards Laws, regulations, directives, standards International/European Standards International/European Standards This section of the Guide essentially references international standards (ISO and IEC). A list of relevant standards is provided in the § annex. Relevant international and local standards are listed in Annex i starting g i­6. Different types of standards There are three different types of standards: C-type standards A-type standards C-type standards contain all safety requirements for a specific (Basic safety standards) contain basic terminology, principles machine or a type of machine. If this standard exists, it has pri­ of design and general aspects that can be applied to all ma­ ority over the A­type or B­type standard. Nevertheless, a C­type chinery. standard can refer to a B­type standard or an A­type standard. In all circumstances the legal requirements of the region shall B-type standards be met. (Group safety standards) address a safety aspect or protective device that can be used for a wide range of machinery. B­type standards are in turn divided into: • B1-type standards on special safety aspects, e.g., the elec­ trical safety of machinery, the calculation of safety distanc­ es, requirements for control systems • B2-type standards on protective devices, e.g., two­hand controls, physical guards and electro­sensitive protective equipment - You will find a list of important standards in the “Overview of the relevant standards” section of the Annex g i­6. 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK §§--1111 Subject to change without notice International/European Standards Laws, regulations, directives, standards Overview of protective devices and related standards § Non-Technical Safeguarding & Risk Assessment Inherent Safety measures ISO 12100 Complementary measures [EN 292 & EN 1050] Machine Equipment Electrical Components IEC 60204-1 Hydraulic Components ISO 4413