productivity — using modern methods, the opposite is actually possible. • Higher levels of safety result in increased motivation and satisfaction and, as a result, higher productivity. Safety is a management task It is very important that the needs of operators, maintenance process and the personnel will result in the necessary accep- personnel and others are included in the planning at concept tance. level. Only an intelligent safety concept matched to the work Involvement of the employees results in acceptance Decision-makers in industry are responsible for their employ- To improve sustainability, experts are therefore calling for ees as well as for smooth, cost-effective production. Only if the establishment of a wide-ranging “safety culture” in the managers make safety part of everyday business activities will organization. And not without reason: after all, most accidents employees be receptive to the subject. are due to human error. To reduce accidents, experts call for a wide-ranging “safety culture” within the organization. Expert knowledge is required The safety of machinery depends to a large extent on the cor- directives describe general requirements that are specified in rect application of regulations and standards. Such regulations more detail by standards. European standards are also often describe general requirements that are specified in more detail accepted outside Europe. by standards. Standards are updated regularly and represent Implementing all these requirements in a practical manner accepted solutions for safety. requires extensive expert knowledge, application knowledge, In Europe, national legal requirements are harmonized through and many years of experience. European directives such as the Machinery Directive. These “Everyone, and that includes you and me, is at some time careless, complacent, overconfident and stubborn. At times, each of us becomes distracted, inattentive, bored and fatigued. We occasionally take chances, we misunderstand, we misinterpret and we misread. These are completely human characteristics.