the country of use. If these operating instructions are not “original operating instructions” in an official EU language, then such a version must also be supplied. • You shall issue a declaration of conformity and mark the machine or the safety component with the CE marking. As a machine user, the Work Equipment Directive applies to you: • Observe the requirements of the Work Equipment Directive and its national implementations. These may also include more stringent requirements! • You shall find out whether further national requirements (e.g., testing of work equipment, service or mainte‐ nance intervals, etc.) exist and comply with them. Standards Standards are technical agreements made between the various interested parties (manufacturers, users, test bodies, occupational health and safety authorities, and governments). Contrary to popular opinion, standards are not prepared or agreed by governments or authorities. Standards describe the state-of-the-art at the time they are drafted. Over the last 100 years, a change from national standards to globally applicable standards has taken 16 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice § – LAWS, DIRECTIVES, STANDARDS place. Depending on the place the machine or product is to be used, different legal stipulations may apply that make it necessary to apply different standards. The correct selection and application of standards supports the machine manufacturer to ensure compliance with legal requirements. This guide makes reference to international standards (ISO, IEC). An overview of the relevant standards is provided in the annex, page 166. The overview also contains their regional equivalents (e.g. EN) or equivalent national standards to the referenced international standards. Global standardization organizations and structures ISO (International Standardization Organization) ISO is a worldwide network of standardization organizations from 165 countries. ISO prepares and publishes international standards focused on non-electrical technolo‐ gies. IEC