are required to establish Joint Health and Safety Committees. These triggered when applicable sections of the Regulation for Industrial committees meet regularly to discuss health and safety concerns, Establishments and Sections 24, 25, 26, 28, 31 or 32 also apply. review pro gress and make recommendations. Joint Health and Safety Committees are an advi sory group comprised of both worker and management representatives. Please consult the following links: - Prestart Health and Safety Reviews: http://www.labour.gov.on.ca/english/hs/pdf/gl_psr.pdf - Occupational Health and Safety Act: http://www.labour.gov.on.ca/english/hs/pubs/ohsa/index.php §§--22 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Laws, regulations, directives, standards Regulations Mexico regulatory requirements The main regulation of Health and Safety in A Mexican Health and Safety Program is based on the outline § Mexico is covered in “The Federal Regulation for of this Regulation. Occupational Health, Safety and environment,” or The federal agency responsible for labor issues in Mexico is the RFSHMAT (El Reglamento Federal de Seguridad, Secretary of Labor and Social Welfare, or STPS (Secretaría del Higiene y Medio Ambiente de Trabajo). Trabajo y Previsión Social). It issues and performs Health and It specifies the training of employees, Health and Safety Docu­ Safety audits on this regulation. mentation that is required in the workplace, and a description The Official Mexican Norms (NOM) are the specific work place and format for the necessary preventive measures to ensure a rules issued to ensure compliance with Mexican labor laws and safe work place. The regulation (DOF 21.10.1997) states in: regulations. NOMs do not have to be approved by the legisla­ • Article 35 that Machines shall comply with the related ture, but Federal government agencies (like STPS) have the standards jurisdictional authority to develop and issue NOMs. The NOMs • Article 36 that machines, movable parts and safeguarding detail each one of