associated with a safety requirement might not stop or speeds might not be reduced to the necessary level, creating hazards. Cybersecurity considerations are relevant to the following machines: • Machines with programmable controllers with electronic interfaces • Machines with programmable controllers with a network connection Machines with contact-based controls or machines with electronic but non-programmable controllers are not directly relevant to cybersecurity considerations. If electronically parameterizable components are integrated, hazards can in turn arise via the interface to the parameterization device. What measures are necessary to address the cybersecurity aspects of machine safety? Protective measures familiar from office communications or in the private sphere (firewall, virus scanner) are not sufficient for the industrial environment. A systematic approach is necessary. In general, the following applies to all participants operating in the value chain • the corporate culture and thus awareness within the company of the issue of cybersecurity must be suffi‐ ciently developed. • an appropriate safety management system must be installed. • the relevant knowledge must be up to date. • the necessary technologies with an appropriate level of IT security must be available. 148 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3F – FUNCTIONAL SAFETY AND CYBERSECURITY Figure 121: Review of the safety management in a production plant The following table summarizes the machine security related aspects that machine manufacturers, equipment manufacturers, system integrators, service providers, equipment and machine operators need to consider to prevent cybersecurity attacks: Table 58: Machine security related aspects that machine manufacturers, equipment manufacturers, system integrators, service providers, equipment/machine operators need to consider to prevent cybersecurity attacks Machine manufacturer Equipment manufacturer, system inte‐ Plant/machine operator grator, service provider Security risk assessment Security risk assessment Security threat assessment E.g., according to IEC TR63074. Identifi‐ E.g., according to IEC