for unmodified, Guidelines issued by professional associations the creation of safety harmonized, if Regulations standards to published in the Rules Information CEN/CENELEC OJEU The application of harmonized standards Purchase order Machine operator suggests conformity with the acc. to applicable (assumption of Directives guidelines responsibility) Safe machine Declaration of conformity Safe machine running CE mark - The directives are freely available, e.g., at http://eur-lex.europa.eu/ European directives and standards apply to manufacturers and organizations that place machinery on the market in the European Union. §§--44 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Laws, regulations, directives, standards European directives Laws, regulations, directives, standards European directives Machinery Directive Machinery Directive 2006/42/EC addresses the manufactur­ • In 1989, the Council of the European Community passed the ers and distributors of machines and safety components. It directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member § establishes the necessary tasks for new machines to meet States relating to machinery, known as the Machinery Direc- health and safety requirements in order to dismantle trade bar­ tive (89/392/EEC). riers within Europe and to guarantee a high level of health and • By 1995, this directive had to be applied in all EC Member safety for users and operators. States. It applies to machines and to safety components individually • In 1998, various amendments were summarized and con­ placed on the markets, as well as to used machines and safety solidated in the Machinery Directive 98/37/EC. components from third­party countries which are placed on the • In 2006, a "new Machinery Directive" (2006/42/EC) was market in the European Economic Area for the first time passed which replaces the previous version. All EC Member (e.g., from the North America or Asia). States were obliged to implement the new directive by 29 December 2009. As