The height of the cam has protected by a separate mechanical stop. used as a mechanical stop. been matched to the position switch. Method of actuation/Positive mechanical actuation An important requirement to be met by mechanical interlock- Example: Positive mechanical actuation ing devices is that of positive mechanical actuation. Positive mechanical actuation is the forced movement of the mechani- cal components of the interlocking device (safety switch) forced by the mechanical components of the guard (e.g., fence door) either by means of direct contact or by rigid parts. The use of positive mechanical actuation in an interlocking device ensures that the position switch is actuated when the guard is opened and reduces the possibility of manipulation. Safe: The opening of the protec- Flawed: The position switch will tive door positively actuates the not always open the safety circuit, mechanical plunger of the posi- e.g., if the plunger is sticking due tion switch. This opens the safety to encrusted deposits or lubricat- circuit. ing oil residue that has solidified. Source: BG Feinmechanik und Elektrotechnik, BGI 575 3-22 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Positive opening A contact element is positive-opening if the switching contacts Marking of contacts that are positive opening are isolated immediately by a defined movement of the actuat- as per IEC 60947-5-1, Annex K. ing element by non-elastic parts (e.g., springs). The use of posi- tive opening normally closed contacts in position switches with positive mechanical actuation ensures that the electrical circuit is still isolated even if the contacts are worn or other electrical The use of both redundantly monitored electronic outputs faults have occurred. from electro-sensitive position switches is considered The following requirements also apply where positive-opening equivalent to positive opening. If a Type 3