7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 3-95 Subject to change without notice Technical protective measures Risk reduction The purpose of the validation procedure is to check the speci- However, the designer shall also have considered restarting fication and the conformity of how the components involved in when the protective field becomes clear again, particularly if it the safety function have been integrated on the machine. is possible to stand behind the protective field undetected. The Validation shall show that safety-related parts of the control validation process shall uncover such aspects. function meet the requirements of appropriate safety standards A validation process involves a number of procedures being ap- (such as ISO 13849-2), in particular the requirements for the plied which complement each other. These include: level of safety defined. • Technical inspection of the positioning and effectiveness of Insofar as is reasonable, validation should be carried out by protective devices people who were not involved in the design of the safety-related • Practical inspection of response to failure with regard to the 1 parts of the control systems. In some provinces of Canada, this expected results using simulations is part of the Pre Start and Health and Safety Review (PSR), • Validation of environmental requirements by means of and in Brazil, this is part of the Technical Responsibility Annota- functional tests: tion of the Regional Council of Engineering and Architecture • Sufficient protection against influencing factors from the (ART/CREA). environment (temperature, moisture, shock, vibration In the validation process, it is important to check faults and in behavior, etc.) particular omissions in the formulated specification. • Sufficient resistance to interference from electromagnetic sources The critical part of how a safety-related control function has been designed is usually the specification. For example, access to a manufacturing cell is to be safe-