their resistance to errors. They are based on the principles of preventing and controlling faults. 112 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Table 47: Safety aspects of control systems with different operating principles. Translation of text from: Alfred Neudörfer: Konstruieren sicherheitsgerechter Produkte, Springer-Verlag, Berlin u. a., ISBN 978-3-642-33889-2 (5th Edition 2013) Controller Aspects relating to safety technology Principle of operation of the Typical devices Interfering factors Explanations control system Pneumatic • Multiway valves • Changes in energy levels Mostly designed as electro‐ • Vent valves • Purity and water content pneumatic control systems. • Manual shut-off valves of the compressed air Service unit necessary for • Filters with water trap conditioning compressed air. • Hoses Hydraulic • Accumulators • Purity Mostly designed as electrohy‐ Fluid • Pressure limiters • Viscosity draulic control systems. • Multiway valves • Temperature of the pres‐ Measures necessary to limit • Filter surized fluid the pressure and temperature in the system and to filter the • Level gages medium. • Temperature gages • Hoses and cables • Threaded fittings Electrome‐ • Control switches: • Protection class of the Due to their design and chanical Position switch devices unambiguous switch settings, ° Selector switches • Selection, sizing and parts are insensitive to ° arrangement of compo‐ moisture, temperature fluctu‐ Pushbuttons ° nents and devices ations, and electromagnetic • Switching amplifiers: • Design and routing of the disturbances if selected cor‐ Contactors cables rectly. ° Relay ° Circuit breakers ° Electronic • Individual components, for As listed under “Electrome‐ Exclusion of faults not possi‐ example: chanical”. ble. ° Transistors In addition: Reliable action can only be Resistors achieved using control system ° • Temperature fluctuations Capacitors concepts, not through the ° •