requirements for ESPE independent of their tech‐ nology or principle of operation. What are the benefits of electro-sensitive protective equipment? If an operator frequently or regularly has to access a machine and is therefore exposed to a hazard, the use of an ESPE instead of (mechanical) physical guards (covers, safety fencing, etc.) is advantageous thanks to: • Reduced access time (operator does not have to wait for the guard to open) • Increased productivity (time savings when loading the machine) • Improved workplace ergonomics (operator does not have to operate a physical guard) In addition, operators and others alike are protected. Against what hazards does electro-sensitive protective equipment not protect? Since an electro-sensitive protective equipment does not represent a physical barrier, it is not able to protect persons against emissions such as ejected machine parts, workpieces or chips, ionizing radiation, heat (thermal radiation), noise, sprayed coolant and lubricant, etc. Similarly, ESPE cannot be used on machines on which long stopping/run-down times require minimum distances that cannot be achieved. In such cases, physical guards must be used. ESPE technologies Electro-sensitive protective equipment can implement detection of persons through various principles: optical, capacitive, ultrasound, microwaves (radar) and passive infrared detection. In practice, optical protective devices have been proven over many years and in large numbers (see figure 43, page 70). 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 69 Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Opto-electronic protective devices The most common electro-sensitive protective devices are optoelectronic devices such as: • Safety light curtains and safety light-beam sensors (AOPD: active optoelectronic protective devices) • Safety laser scanners (AOPDDR: active optoelec‐ tronic protective devices responsive to diffuse reflection) • Camera-based protective devices (VBPD: vision based protective devices) Figure 43: Examples of optoelectronic protective devices NOTE An optoelectronic