and prepares and publishes European ing barriers to trade, CEN collaborates with standards (EN) in this area. Similar to the ISO. Using a voting procedure, CEN determines situation between CEN and ISO, CENEL­ whether ISO standards are adopted and pub­ EC is increasingly adopting IEC standards lishes them as European standards. and their numbering system. §§--1122 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Laws, regulations, directives, standards Laws, regulations, directives, standards International/European Standards National standardization organizations and structures in Europe As a rule, each EU member state has its own standardization • If similar national standards exist for adopted European organization, e.g., DIN in Germany, ON in Austria, BSI in the standards, the national standards shall be withdrawn. § United Kingdom, AFNOR in France. These standardization or­ • If no applicable European standards exist for specific ganizations prepare and publish national standards as per the aspects or machinery, existing national standards can be legal requirements of the member state concerned. To provide applied. harmonized health and safety in the European Community and • A national standardization organization is only allowed to to remove trade barriers, the European standards are adopted prepare a new national standard if this intention has been by the national standardization organizations. The following announced and there is no interest at European level (at principles apply to the relationship between national and Euro­ CEN or CENELEC). pean standards: European standards for machinery safety To be able to implement the objectives and requirements de­ A harmonized European standard is produced as follows: fined in the European directives in practice, technical standards 1. The EU Commission, as the executive organ of the EU, issues shall describe and specify these requirements in detail. a mandate to CEN or CENELEC to prepare a European stan­ Standards