note that OSHA utilizes these national consen­ sus standards to further define machine safeguarding require- Mexico ments in addition to Subpart O. The Supreme Justice Court of the Nation (La Suprema Corte de For instance, in 1910.212(a)(3)(ii), the following statement is Justicia de la Nación) stated that international treaties are bind­ made: ing for the whole Mexican State, and therefore international standards (ISO­IEC) have to be considered as the base for all technical regulations. 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK §§--99 Subject to change without notice Standards Laws, regulations, directives, standards Brazil ABNT is the sole and exclusive representative in Brazil of the Founded in 1940, the Brazilian Association of Technical ISO (International Organization for Standardization) and IEC Standards (ABNT) is the organization responsible for technical (International Electrotechnical Commission) international § standardization in the country, providing the necessary basis organizations, as well as the regional standardization bodies to the Brazilian technological development. These standards COPANT (Panamericana Commission of Technical Standards) are generally referred to as NBRs (“Normas do Brasil” ­ Brazil­ and AMN (Mercosur Association for Standardization). ian Standards), more precisely, ABNT NBR. Besides the ABNT NBR technical standards, there are the ABNT is a private, nonprofit civil association, recognized as Regulatory Standards (“Normas Regulamentadoras” ­ NRs) the only National Standardization Forum through Resolution which belongs to the Labor Laws Consolidation (CLT). These No. 07 of CONMETRO dated 24 August 1992. It is a founding are compulsory requirements and include NR 12, which ad­ member of ISO (International Organization for Standardiza­ dresses safety of machinery. tion), COPANT (Panamericana Technical Standards Commis­ sion) and AMN (MERCOSUR Standardization Association). General A summary of important safety standards by region is pre­ sented in the tables in the annex. Consult local, state and federal regulations for any additional requirements that may apply to