ENVIRONMENT, SAFETY & HEALTH DIVISION Chapter 25: Machine and Portable Tools Machine Safeguarding Guideline Product ID: 271 | Revision ID: 2351 | Date published: 19 July 2021 | Date effective: 19 July 2021 URL: https://www-group.slac.stanford.edu/esh/eshmanual/references/toolsGuideMachineGuardOptions.pdf 1 Purpose The purpose of these guidelines is to provide effective safeguards. They cover the selection of safeguarding methods. They apply to machine and shop custodians. 2 Guidelines If a machine-specific evaluation or other inspection reveals areas of the machine whose moving parts pose a potential hazard to operators or others nearby, guarding can be accomplished by one or a combination of the methods below.1 Whichever safeguard or combination of safeguards is chosen, it must 1. Prevent the worker’s body or clothing from contacting hazardous moving parts 2. Be firmly secured to machine and not easily removed 3. Not allow falling objects to enter moving parts 4. Create no new hazards (must not have shear points, jagged edges or unfinished surfaces) 5. Create no interference (must not prevent worker from performing the job quickly and comfortably) 6. Allow safe lubrication (the person should be able to lubricate the machine without removing the safeguard) 1 Content based on Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), Concepts and Techniques of Machine Safeguarding (OSHA Publication 3067) and Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Health and Safety Manual, Chapter 25, “Machine Guarding - Shop and Lab Machine Safety” 19 July 2021 SLAC-I-730-0A21T-016-R003 1 of 12 SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory Environment, Safety & Health Division Machine and Portable Tools | Machine Safeguarding Guideline 2.1 Guards 2.1.1 Fixed A fixed guard provides a barrier, a permanent part of the machine, preferable to all other types of guards. 2.1.2 Interlocked When an interlocked guard is opened or removed, the tripping mechanism or power automatically shuts off or disengages, and the machine cannot cycle or be