Safety in control systems according to EN ISO 13849-1 Machine Safety - Jokab Safety products New standards for safety in control systems Building a protection system that works in practice and provides sufficient safety requires expertise in several areas. The design of the safety functions in the protection system in order to ensure they provide sufficient reliability is a key ingredient. As help for this there is, for example, the EN ISO 13849-1 standard. With this document we aim to provide an introduction to the standard and its application in conjunction with our products. Introducing the new standard What is PL (Performance Level)? The generation change for standards on safety in control PL is a measure of the reliability of a safety function. PL is systems introduces new concepts and calculations for divided into five levels (a-e). PL e gives the best reliability and machine builders and machine users. The EN 954-1 standard is equivalent to that required at the highest level of risk. (categories) is being phased out and replaced by EN ISO To calculate which level the PL system achieves you 13849-1 (PL, Performance Level) and EN 62061 (SIL, Safety need to know the following: Integrity Level). Although the deadline for using EN 954-1 is • The system’s structure (categories B, 1-4) set to 31/12/2011, it is beneficial to start applying the new • The Mean Time To dangerous Failure of the component standards as soon as possible as many new standards no (MTTF longer refer to EN 954-1. d) • The system’s Diagnostic Coverage (DC) PL or SIL? What should I use? You will also need to: • protect the system against a failure that knocks out both The standard you should use depends on the choice of channels (CCF) technology, experience and customer requirements. • protect
pair of contactors d order for the conditions for achieving PL to continue to be by monitoring the contactors with the logic device. valid. This is because EN ISO 13849-1 is based on a “mission Mean Time To dangerous Failure (MTTF d ) time” of 20 years. The MTTF -value should primarily come from the d Common Cause Failure (CCF) manufacturer. If the manufacturer cannot provide values, In Appendix F of EN ISO 13849-1 there is a table of actions they are given from tables in EN ISO 13849-1 or you have to be taken to protect against CCF, to ensure a failure does to calculate MTTF using the B -value, (average number d 10d not knock out both channels. of cycles until 10 % of the components have a dangerous Systematic errors Appendix G of EN ISO 13849-1 describes a range of actions Calculation of the average number of cycles is as that need to be taken to protect against incorporating faults follows: into your design. B 10d MTTF d = PL for safety functions 0,1 • n op PL is given in the table on the facing page. If you want to use Where an exact PFH -value instead, this can be produced using a D d op • h op • 3600 table in Appendix K in EN ISO 13849-1. n = op t Once you have produced the PL for each block, you can cycle generate a total PL for the safety function in Table 11 of n = Number of cycles per year op EN ISO 13849-1. This gives a rough estimate of the PL. If d = Operation days per year op you have calculated PFH for each block instead, you can h = Operation hours per day D op get a total of
PFH for the safety function by adding together t = Cycle time (seconds) D cycle all the values of the blocks. The safety function’s total PFH D corresponds to a particular PL in Table 3 of EN ISO 13849-1. Example: d = 365 days, h = 24 hours and t = 1,800 op op cycle seconds (2 times/hour) which gives nop= 17,520 cycles. Requirements for safety-related software If you use a safety PLC for implementing safety functions, The following are examples of requirements for software this places requirements on how the software is from EN ISO 13849-1: developed and validated. To avoid error conditions, the • A development life cycle must be produced with software should be readable, understandable and be validation measures that indicate how and when the possible to test and maintain. program should be validated, for example, following a A software specification must be prepared to ensure change. that you can check the functionality of the program. It is • The specification and design must be documented. also important to divide the program into modules that • Function tests must be performed. can be tested individually. Paragraph 4.6 and Appendix • Validated functional blocks must be used whenever J of EN ISO 13849-1 specify requirements for safety possible. related software. • Data and control flow are to be described using, for example, a condition diagram or software flow chart. Safety in control systems according to EN ISO 13849-1 | 7 Example 1 Safety system using RT9 Protection layout for a packaging machine with low risks. Key switch JSNY8 Monitors that the door is closed. Safety relay RT9 Monitors safety components. Emergency stop button To stop the machine in case of danger. Step 1 – Risk assessment Step 2 – Reduce the risk Food to be packaged is
loaded into the cell manually through As protection, an interlocked door is selected with the key the rear door. A batch is prepared for the packing conveyor switch JSNY8. Downtime is short enough for the dangerous in the infeed hopper. The cell is reset and restarted. The movement to have stopped before the operator can access packaging machine with conveyor belt only operates hen it. The emergency stop is placed within easy reach, on both both doors are closed and when the protection system has sides of the cell near the locked doors. been reset. In the risk assessment it was established that the machine PLr is to be operated in three shifts (8 hours per shift) 365 days (cid:51)(cid:20) a low risk a year. It is assumed that operational disturbances were (cid:41)(cid:20) (cid:51)(cid:21) resolved in less than one minute in the danger zone. This can (cid:54)(cid:20) (cid:41)(cid:21) (cid:51)(cid:20) b be carried out two times per hour (F2). Unexpected start- (cid:51)(cid:21) ups are not deemed to cause serious injury but rather minor c high risk (cid:51)(cid:20) healable injuries (S1). The operator is deemed not to have the (cid:54)(cid:21) (cid:41)(cid:20) (cid:51)(cid:21) d possibility of avoiding injury as the machine moves quickly (cid:41)(cid:21) (cid:51)(cid:20) (P2). (cid:51)(cid:21) e The number of cycles for the safety function = 365 days/ year · (3·8) hours/day · 2 cycles/hour = 17,520 cycles/year Assessment of the PL necessary for the safety function with r interlocked door for this example. The assessment for the safety function required for access to the machine is PL= c (S1, F2, P2). In addition to this safety r NOTE: The assessment needs to be made for each safety function, an emergency stop function is needed. This is also function. assessed as PL=c. r 8 | Safety in control systems according to EN
ISO 13849-1 Safety in control systems according to EN ISO 13849-1 | 9 * S1 S2 Emerg. Stop Emerg. Stop K1 Q1 RT9 Contactors Q2 Contactors B2 B1 Key switch Key switch * Monitoring of contactors with K1 Step 3 - Calculate the safety functions How safe is a mechanical switch? The starting block that is composed of double unmonitored A mechanical switch must be installed and used according contactors has been calculated at 2.47·10-8. The safety to its specifications in order to be reliable. functions are represented by block diagrams. • Life expectancy only applies if correctly installed. Safety functions 1 and 2 are identical. Therefore, only safety • The locking head must be fixed so that it will not loosen. function 1 is shown. • The environment around the lock housing must be kept clean. Safety functions 3 and 4 are identical. Therefore, only safety • Two mechanical switches on a door can also fail for the function 3 is shown. same reason. Safety function 1 Input Logic Output Result B1 Q1/Q2 K1 PL=c Key switch Redundant monitored PL c r Safety relay RT9 JSNY8 contactors PL e PL c PL e PFH + PFH + PFH = 1,14·10-6 + 9,55 ·10-9+ 2,47·10-8 = 1,17·10-6 PL c D, JSNY8 D, RT9 D, Q1/Q2 Safety function 3 Input Logic Output Result S1 K1 Q1/Q2 PL=c E-Stop button Safety relay RT9 Redundant monitored PL c r PL c PL e contactors PL e PFH + PFH + PFH = 1,34·10-6 + 9,55 ·10-9 + 2,47·10-8 = 1,37·10-6 PL c D D, RT9 D, Q1/Q2 The reason for not achieving more than PL c with this solution is that you use one key switch per door. PL d could be achieved by using two key switches per door, but further action
on the monitoring of each switch will be required as well. Note: If the risk assessment had shown that a serious injury, S2, could occur, the outcome would have been PL= e. r This would have meant that the above solution was inadequate. For the emergency stop function, PL d can be achieved provided that certain failure exclusions can be made. These safety functions can be downloaded from our website as a SISTEMA project, www.jokabsafety.com. Example 2 Safety system using Vital Protection layout for a robot cell with high risks. Non-contact sensor, Eden Monitors that the door is Safety controller, Vital closed. Monitors safety components in series. Emergency stop button, Smile Tina To stop the machine in case of danger. Emergency stop button INCA Tina Light curtain, Focus (with To stop the machine in integrated muting function) case of danger. Prevents passage. Step 1 – Risk assessment The workpieces are fed into the equipment and transported is required. The power source to all hazardous machinery out again following an error-free test. With the help of a functions has to be cut using all safety functions. robot the workpieces are added to a machine for testing. The solution with Vital makes it possible to implement a Unauthorised workpieces are positioned by the robot for robot application with only one safety controller, which does post-machining in a manual discharge station. The work that not need to be configured or programmed. Vital makes it needs to be done in the robot cell is to correct operational possible to connect up to 30 safety functions in a single loop, disturbances for the test equipment and the conveyor belt with PL e in accordance with EN ISO 13849-1. (about once an hour), post-machining and unloading from the manual station (about once an hour), program adjustments
PLr (once/week) and cleaning (once/week) (F2). Unexpected low risk (cid:51)(cid:20) a start-ups of the robot are expected to cause serious injury (cid:41)(cid:20) (cid:51)(cid:21) ( o S f 2 a ) v . o T i h d e in o g p in e j r u a r t y o r a i s s t d h e e e r m ob e o d t n m o o t v to e s h a q v u e ic t k h ly e ( p P o 2 s ). s i T b h il e it y (cid:54)(cid:20) (cid:41)(cid:21) (cid:51)(cid:20) b (cid:51)(cid:21) assessment for the safety function required for access to the c (cid:51)(cid:20) machine is PL r =e (S2, F2, P2). (cid:54)(cid:21) (cid:41)(cid:20) (cid:51)(cid:21) d The coming ISO 10218-2 standard for robot systems/cells specifies the requirement PL d for the safety functions to (cid:41)(cid:21) (cid:51)(cid:20) (cid:51)(cid:21) e be used (if the risk analysis does not show a different PL). high risk For the robot safety stop and emergency stop inputs, the requirement is at least PL d (according to the EN ISO 10218-1 Assessment of the PL required for the safety function with r standard). However, in this case risk assessment is PL r = e. interlocked door. Step 2 – Reduce the risk As protection, an interlocked door is selected with the Eden NOTE: The assessment needs to be made for each safety non-contact sensor. To protect against entering the cell the function. wrong way, transport of materials in and out is protected and provided with muting to distinguish between material and people. The emergency stop is also a safety function that 10 | Safety in control systems according to EN ISO 13849-1 B1 Focus with Tina 10A
B5 Eden K1 Vital S1 Inca Tina B2 Focus with Tina 10A S2 Smile Tina B3 B4 Focus with Tina 10A Focus with Tina 10B with muting unit with muting unit MF-T MF-T Step 3 - Calculate the safety functions Safety function 3 The PFH -value of the robot’s safety stop input is 5.79·10-8 D When calculating the safety function the PFH - values D (the value applies to ABB industrial robots with IRC5 for both the light curtain and the muting unit shall be controller). The safety functions are represented by block included in the same function. See safety function 3 diagrams. below. Safety function 1 Input Logic Output Result B5 K1 Q1 PL=e No contact safety Safety controller Machine stop input r PL e sensor Eden Vital for robot, redundant PL e PL e PL e PFH + PFH + PFH = 4,5·10-9 + 2,74·10-8 + 5,79·10-8 = 8,98·10-8 PL e D,Eden D, Vital D, Robot Safety function 2 Input Logic Output Result S2 K1 Q1 E-Stop button Safety controller Machine stop input PL r =e PL e Smile Tina Vital for robot, redundant PL e PL e PL e PFH + PFH + PFH = 4,66·10-9 + 2,74·10-8 + 5,79·10-8 = 9,0·10-8 PL e D, Smile Tina D, Vital D, Robot Safety function 3 Input Logic Output Result B4 K1 Q1 PL=e Light curtain Tina 10B Safety controller Machine stop input PL e r Focus PL e Vital for robot, redundant PL e PL e PL e PFH + PFH + PFH , + PFH , = 2,5·10-9 + 4,5·10-9 + 2,74·10-8 + 5,79·10-8 = 9,2310-8 PL e D,Focus D, Tina 10 D Vital D Robot These safety functions with Vital meet PL e in accordance with EN ISO 13849-1. Note that the above functions are only
selected examples of the safety functions that is represented in the robot cell. Safety in control systems according to EN ISO 13849-1 | 11 Example 3 Safety system using Pluto Protection layout for a machining tool and industrial robot with high risks. Safety PLC Pluto Monitors safety components. Door 4 Door 3 Door 2 Station 2 Station 1 Door 1 Step 1 – Risk assessment The workpieces to be machined are fed into the cell through a is breached, station 2 stops in a safe manner. By opening conveyor belt and positioned by the operator in the pneumatic doors 2 and 3 (also monitored by Eden) the conveyor belt machining tool in station 1. The operator starts station 1 and the pneumatic machining tool will stop safely. Manual manually. The pneumatic machining tool performs work on the reset must always be done after actuation by any safety workpiece in station 1. The operator then places the machined device. workpiece on the conveyor belt for transfer to station 2. The When the protection system requires a number of safety robot then takes the workpiece that is placed in the hydraulic devices and that multiple machines must be checked, safety press. The workpiece leaves the cell by transport out onto PLC Pluto is the most effective solution. If the protection the conveyor. The work that needs to be done in station 2 is, system also has to work by zones and in different modes of for example, to address operational disturbances in the press operation, this is another compelling reason to use Pluto. and the robot (a few times a week, F2). With Pluto, PL e can be achieved regardless of the number of Unexpected start-ups of the robot are expected to cause connected safety devices. serious injury (S2). The operator is
deemed not to have the possibility of avoiding injury as the robot moves quickly (P2). The assessment for the safety function required for access Robot PLr Conveyor belt PLr to station 2 is PL r =e (S2, F2, P2). This assessment would (cid:51)(cid:20) a low risk (cid:51)(cid:20) a low risk still be the same in respect of the press. For the safety function for the risks associated with the conveyor belt, the (cid:41)(cid:20) (cid:51)(cid:21) (cid:41)(cid:20) (cid:51)(cid:21) assessment S1, F2, P1 is made giving PL= b. (cid:54)(cid:20) (cid:41)(cid:21) (cid:51)(cid:20) b (cid:54)(cid:20) (cid:41)(cid:21) (cid:51)(cid:20) b r (cid:51)(cid:21) (cid:51)(cid:21) c c Step 2 – Reduce the risk (cid:51)(cid:20) (cid:51)(cid:20) As protection, interlocked doors are selected with the Eden (cid:54)(cid:21) (cid:41)(cid:20) (cid:51)(cid:21) d (cid:54)(cid:21) (cid:41)(cid:20) (cid:51)(cid:21) d non-contact sensor. Station 1 with the pneumatic machining (cid:41)(cid:21) (cid:51)(cid:20) (cid:41)(cid:21) (cid:51)(cid:20) tool is operated by a two-hand device. When the two-hand (cid:51)(cid:21) e (cid:51)(cid:21) e device is released, the dangerous movement will be stopped high risk high risk safely. Station 2 can be in automatic mode, when a light PL= e for the robot and hydraulic press and PL=b for the curtain (Focus) and a non-contact sensor at door 4 (Eden) r r conveyor belt. protects the entry. If the door is opened or the light curtain 12 | Safety in control systems according to EN ISO 13849-1 S1 S2–S4 B1–B3 B4-B5 Two-hand device, Emergency stop, Non-contact sensor Non-contact sensor Safeball Smile Tina Eden Eden/Light curtain Focus with Tina 10A Q1 Q2 Q3 Robot Hydraulic press Pneumatic machining tool Step 3 - Calculate the safety functions for the robot cell robot are shown below. This is only a subset of the safety The PFH -value for the robot’s safety stop input is 5.79·10-8 functions. When the power is to be cut to multiple machines D (the
value applies to ABB industrial robots with IRC5 in a cell, the safety functions can be defined in different ways controller). depending on the risk analysis. The safety functions are Only safety functions to help cut the power to the industrial represented by block diagrams. Safety function 1 Input Logic Output Result B1 K1 Q1 No contact safety Safety/PlC Machine stop input PL=e PL e r sensor Eden Pluto for robot, redundant PL e PL e PL e PFH , + PFH , + PFH , = 4,5·10-9 + 2·10-9 + 5,79·10-8 = 6,44·10-8 PL e D Eden D Pluto D Robot Safety function 2 Input Logic Output Result S2 K1 Q1 PL=e E-Stop button Safety/PlC Machine stop input PL e r Smile Tina Pluto for robot, redundant PL e PL e PL e PFH + PFH + PFH = 4,66·10-9 + 2·10-9 + 5,79·10-8= 6,46·10-8 PL e D, Smile Tina D, Pluto D, Robot Safety function 3 Input Logic Output Result B5 K1 Q1 PL=e Light curtain Tina 10A Safety/PlC Machine stop input PL e r Focus PL e Pluto for robot, redundant PL e PL e PL e PFH + PFH + PFH = 5,02·10-9 + 2·10-9 + 5,79·10-8 = 6,49·10-8 PL e D,Focus D, Pluto D, Robot These safety functions with Pluto meet PL e in accordance with EN ISO 13849-1. Note that the above functions are only selected examples of the safety functions that appear in the robot cell. Safety in control systems according to EN ISO 13849-1 | 13 What defines a safety function? Calculating that you have achieved the PL that is required is not difficult, especially if you use “pre-calculated” r safety devices and logic units. But what parts should then be included in each safety function? This must be resolved before you
the system from systematic errors built into the Choice of technology design • PL (Performance Level) is a technology-neutral concept • follow certain rules to ensure software can be developed that can be used for electrical, mechanical, pneumatic and and validated in the right way hydraulic safety solutions. • SIL (Safety Integrity Level) can, however, only be used for The five PL-levels (a-e) correspond to certain ranges of PFH - D electrical, electronic or programmable safety solutions. values (probability of dangerous failure per hour). These indicate how likely it is that a dangerous failure could occur Experience over a period of one hour. In the calculation, it is beneficial EN ISO 13849-1 uses categories from EN 954-1 for defining to use PFH -values directly as the PL is a simplification that the system structure, and therefore the step to the new D does not provide equally accurate results. calculations is not so great if you have previous experience of the categories. EN 62061 defines the structures slightly What is the easiest way of complying differently. with the standard? Customer requirements If the customer comes from an industry that is accustomed 1. Use pre-calculated components to using SIL (e.g. the process industry), requirements can As far as it is possible, use the components with pre- also include safety functions for machine safety being SIL calculated PL and PFH D -values. You then minimise rated. the number of calculations to be performed. All ABB Jokab Safety products have pre-calculated PFH -values. D We notice that most of our customers prefer PL as it is technology-neutral and that they can use their previous 2. Use the calculation tool knowledge in the categories. In this document we show With the freeware application SISTEMA (see page 16) you some examples of how to build safety
start calculating phase. To summarise in simple terms you can say that each safety device gives rise to a safety function for each machine that is affected by the safety device in question. Three safety devices that all cut the power to three machines in a cell is therefore equal to nine safety functions. In the section that follows, we explain the background. Multiple safety functions for a machine Three safety functions (SF) are defined for the machine and Multiple safety devices are often used on a machine in are calculated as: order to provide satisfactory and practical protection for SF1: PFH , + PFH , + PFH , = PFH , D F1 D K1 D Q1 D SF1 the operators. In the following example, the machine is SF2: PFH , + PFH , + PFH , = PFH , D B1 D K1 D Q1 D SF2 protected by three safety devices connected to a logic SF3: PFH , + PFH , + PFH , = PFH , D S1 D K1 D Q1 D SF3 device. The following figure illustrates this interconnection schematically. SF1 F1 Light curtain B1 K1 Q1 SF2 Interlocked switch Logic unit Machine S1 E-Stop button SF3 Multiple safety functions for multiple machines in a cell If the operator enters the cell, he is exposed in this case to More commonly, several machines in a single cell/zone are to the same type of risk from all three machines. The power to be protected by multiple safety devices. The following figure all three machines must be cut when the operator enters the illustrates the interconnection schematically for an example. cell through the door interlocked by B1. Each of the machines Q1 – Q3 is shut down separately and independently of K1. F1 Q1 Light curtain
Machine 1 B1 K1 Q2 Interlocked switch Logic unit Machine 2 S1 Q3 E-Stop button Machine 3 14 | Safety in control systems according to EN ISO 13849-1 Theoretical approach for multiple machines Practical approach for multiple machines The theoretical approach to calculate the safety function is as A more practical approach is to divide the safety function into follows: three parts, one for each of the three machines. This is an approach that can provide a more accurate way of B1 K1 Q1 Q2 Q3 Interlocked Logic Machine Machine Machine B1 K1 Q1 switch unit 1 2 3 Interlocked switch Logic unit Machine 1 For the full safety function to be performed you require all B1 K1 Q2 the components to be working. Note that if B1 or K1 has a Interlocked switch Logic unit Machine 2 dangerous malfunction, the entire safety function is disabled. B1 K1 Q3 However, if for example machine Q1 has a dangerous Interlocked switch Logic unit Machine 3 malfunction, and is not shut down, machines Q2 and Q3 will still be shut down. One disadvantage in considering looking at the safety functions, especially where a different the safety function in this way is that you may have trouble PL is required for the safety functions above. If machine Q1 r achieving the PL r required. But if you achieve the PL r is a robot and machine Q2 is a conveyor which is designed required, you can use the theoretical approach. to have negligible risks, the different PL required to protect r against risks from Q1 and Q2 will also be different. This practical approach is therefore the one recommended. Sources: The interpretation is based on information provided by www.dguv.de/ifa/de/pub/grl/pdf/2009_249.pdf IFA (Institut für Arbeitsschutz der Deutschen Gesetzlichen www.bg-metall.de/praevention/fachausschuesse/ Unfallversicherung). For more information on this
and other infoblatt/deutsch.html issues, see Sources. (No 047, Date 05/2010) Examples of safety functions from Case Study 3 - safety PLC Pluto The risk assessment for the safety functions needed for Interlock switch B1, Eden, is to cut the power to all machines the risks associated with the robot was S2, F2, P2, which in the danger zone: resulted in PL=e. The same assessment was made for the • Robot Q1 (PFH , = 5.79·10-8) r D Q1 hydraulic press: PL=e. The assessment of the pneumatic • Hydraulic press Q2 (PFH , = 8·10-8) r D Q2 machining tool is S2, F2, P1 giving PL= d due to the fact that • Pneumatic machining tool Q3 (PFH , = 2·10-7). r D Q3 the assessment is that there is the possibility of avoiding risk. Theoretical approach If you use the practical approach the safety functions are as follows: Robot: PFH , + PFH , + PFH , = 4,5·10-9 + 2·10-9 + 5.79·10-8 = 6.44·10-8 PL e D B1 D K1 D Q1 Hydraulic press: PFH , + PFH , + PFH , = 4.5·10-9 + 2·10-9 + 8·10-8 = 8.65·10-8 PL e D B1 D K1 D Q2 Pneumatic machining tool: PFH , + PFH , + PFH , = 4.5·10-9 + 2·10-9 + 2·10-7 = 2.07·10-7 PL d D B1 D K1 D Q3 This is to be done in a similar way with other safety functions for the cell. For each safety device, you define the machines it affects, and establish the various safety functions according to this. Theoretical approach How would it have worked if you had used the theoretical approach? Would the safety function have achieved PL e? All machines: PFH , + PFH , + PFH , + PFH , + PFH , D
B1 D K1 D Q1 D Q2 D Q3 = 4,5·10-9 + 2·10-9 + 5.79·10-8 + 8·10-8 + 2·10-7 = 3.44·10-7 PL d In this case, the safety function would therefore have not achieved a total PL e, which was required for the risks associated with the robot and hydraulic press. Conclusions • Use the practical approach. • Use safety devices/logic units with high reliability (low PFH ) to make it easy to achieve the PL required. D r • With Vital or Pluto, it is easier to achieve the PL required. r Safety in control systems according to EN ISO 13849-1 | 15 SISTEMA A tool for determining performance level (PL) and generating technical documentation EN ISO 13849-1 requires calculations. To do this in a To work with SISTEMA in a rational way, we have developed manageable way a software tool provides excellent help. a library of our products for download from our website ABB Jokab Safety has chosen to use SISTEMA, a software www.jokabsafety.se. In order to have access to the latest tool developed by BGIA, now called IFA, in Germany. The tool version, visit this page periodically to check for updates and is freeware and can be downloaded from the IFA website, new releases. www.dguv.de/ifa. With SISTEMA it is possible to “build” To download SISTEMA go to www.dguv.de/ifa/en/pra/ safety functions, verify them and generate the technical softwa/sistema/index.jsp or search the Internet for “sistema”. documentation required. Screenshot from SISTEMA. 16 | Safety in control systems according to EN ISO 13849-1 Safety relay, Vital or Pluto? Various benefits in comparison to EN ISO 13849-1 Flexibility Programmable Pluto AS-i Not programmable Pluto All-Master Vital Safety PLC with static and dynamic safety Dynamic "doubled up" inputs. safety signal that tests a sensor, for example, 200 times per second. Master Safety relay
Slaves Double static inputs that Traditional safety PLC only test the switches each Master-Slave with static inputs time they are used. Number of machines/different stops To achieve PL e using a conventional safety relay, such as achieve PL e to EN ISO 13849-1. The Vital module is based RT9, you need to use both channels on the input side and on a dynamic single-channel concept and can replace only connect a single safety device. Under certain conditions multiple safety relays. A similar solution, although more PL d can be achieved by connecting multiple two-channel flexible, is safety PLC Pluto. Pluto, like Vital, is able to make devices to a safety relay, but this is not a generally accepted use of dynamic signals to achieve maximum reliability. method. Vital is a safety controller that allows you to connect and monitor a variety of safety components in series, and to Benefits of Vital Benefits of Pluto • It is possible to connect up to 30 safety components • Pluto is an all-master-system with communications through a channel in line with PL e across a separate safety bus • No programming required • Greater flexibility facilitates the design of protection • The option of combining various safety components systems (e.g. emergency stop button and door contact) • One software for all systems • Easy configuration of the circuit • Easy programming for PL e by using function blocks • Electromechanical switches can also be used (with (certified by TÜV) the addition of the Tina adaptation device) More than 70,000 Vital systems have been More than 30,000 Pluto systems have been successfully installed. successfully installed. Safety in control systems according to EN ISO 13849-1 | 17 Production-friendly safety systems from ABB Jokab Safety Quick-Guard fencing system prevents unauthorised access and offers noise reduction Magne
magnetic lock to keep doors closed during a process Smile emergency stop to stop machinery when there is a hazard The Eden sensor monitors that doors are closed 3-position devicedevice for troubleshooting Pluto Safety PLC, Vital and safety relays for monitoring protection Safeball control device for ergonomic and safe two-handed control Smart stopping timer Focus light curtain to assist in determining protection locations with finger detection Focus light beam to provide protection when entering an area 18 | Safety in control systems according to EN ISO 13849-1 Product groups Training & Advice Practical application of standards and regulations, along with CE-labelling. Dalton process lock Pluto Safety PLC to keep doors closed during a process AS-i Profibus DP A unique All-Master safety PLC for DeviceNet CANopen Ethernet dynamic and static safety circuits. HMI Emergency stop Inca Pluto AS-i for enclosure installation Programmable safety system AS-i where all units are connected to the same bus cable and the function of the unit is determined in the PLC program. Vital safety controller Dynamic safety circuit for multiple protection according to the highest safety category Tina adapter units Transformation of static signals to dynamic safety signals, etc. Sadety relays The market’s most flexible safety relays for different protection purposes and categories. Stopping time & machinery diagnosis Used for stopping time measurement, annual maintenance and for trouble - shooting machinery. Light curtain/light beam/scanner Sensitive edges Complete range of light beams, light prevents against trapping injuries curtains and scanners. Roller doors Sensors/switches/locks for short protection distances Dynamic non-contact sensors, safety and noise reduction switches, magnetic switches and locks. Control devices Operational mode Ergonomic three-position control units, locked and reset two-handed control units and foot Reset pedals. Openable Knox safety lock Open Emergency stop devices Emergency stop devices for dynamic and ensures that doors are locked static
safety circuits. Contact strips/Bumpers/Safety mats Sensitive edges bumpers and safetys mats. Fencing systems/SafeCAD/Roller doors A stable and flexible fencing system that is easy to install. Safety in control systems according to EN ISO 13849-1 | 19 Contact us ABB AB Jokab Safety Tel. +46 300-67 59 00 www.abb.com/lowvoltage 1102 ,ytefaS bakoJ BBA 20020B300271CLT2
solutions in avoid making calculations by hand. You also get help to accordance with EN ISO 13849-1 and calculate the reliability structure your safety solutions and provide the necessary of the safety functions to be used for a particular machine. documentation. The examples in this document are simplified in order to provide an understanding of the principles. The values used 3. Use Pluto or Vital in the examples can change. Use the Pluto safety PLC or Vital safety controller. Not only is it easier to make calculations, but above all it is easier to ensure a higher level of safety. 2 | Safety in control systems according to EN ISO 13849-1 We develop innovative products and solutions for machine safety We make it easy to build protection systems. Developing innovative products and solutions for machine safety has been our business concept since the company started in Sweden in 1988. Our vision is to be “Your partner for machine safety - globally and locally”. Many companies, both in Sweden and abroad, have discovered how much easier it is to build safety and protection systems using products and guidance from us. The goal of our development is to ensure a high safety level (PL e). This is to help our customers create safe workplaces, regardless of who is assessing the risk level. Experience We have extensive experience in the practical application of regulations and standards from both authorities and manufacturing operations. We represent Sweden in the standards body for machinery safety and we work daily with the practical application of safety requirements in combination with production requirements. You can utilise our expertise for training and advice about the new Machinery Directive, risk analysis and safety in control systems. Systems We supply everything from a safety solution for a complete protection system installed
on individual machines or entire production lines. We combine production requirements with Contents: safety requirements for production-friendly solutions. Page 2 Introduction Products Page 4 Work method according to EN ISO 13849-1 We have a complete range of safety components that Page 8 Case study using RT9 make it easy to build protection systems. We develop these Page 10 Case study using Vital innovative products continuously, often in collaboration with Page 12 Case study using Pluto our customers. Page 14 What defines a safety function? Page 16 SISTEMA Page 17 Safety relay, Vital or Pluto? Terms as specified in EN ISO 13849-1 PL P erformance Level T Mean time until 10 % of the components have a 10d Divided into a to e dangerous failure (Component operating time is restricted to T ) 10d PL Required Performance Level r (The required performance level for a particular CCF Common Cause Failure safety function) DC Diagnostic Coverage MTTF Mean Time To Dangerous Failure is divided into Divided into Low, Medium and High d Low, Medium and High PFH Probability of Dangerous Failure per Hour D B Number of cycles until 10 % of the components (Average probability of dangerous failure per hour) 10d have a dangerous failure (for pneumatic and electromechanical components) The description and example in this document show how the product works and can be used. This does not mean that it satisfies the requirements for all types of machines and processes. The purchaser/user is responsible for the product being installed and used in line with applicable regulations and standards. We reserve the right to make changes to the product and product sheet without prior notice. Safety in control systems according to EN ISO 13849-1 | 3 Start Yes No Are new risks generated? Has the risk Yes been adequately End
reduced? No No Is the measure dependent on the Yes control system? Risk assessment and risk minimisation of exposure to the risk (F, frequency) and the possibility you have According to the Machinery Directive, the machine builder of avoiding or limiting the injury (P, possibility). For each factor two (anyone who builds or modifies a machine) is required to options are given. Where the boundary between the two options perform a risk assessment for the machine design and also lies is not specified in the standard, but the following are common include an assessment of all the work operations that need interpretations: to be performed. The EN ISO 12100 standard (combination of EN ISO 14121-1 and EN ISO 12100-1/-2) stipulates the S1 bruises, abrasions, puncture wounds and minor requirements for the risk assessment of a machine. It is crushing injuries this that EN ISO 13849-1 is based on, and a completed risk S2 skeletal injuries, amputations and death assessment is a prerequisite for being able to work with the F1 less frequently than every two weeks standard. F2 more often than every two weeks Step 1 – Risk assessment P1 slow machine movements, plenty of space, low A risk assessment begins with determining the scope of the power machine. This includes the space that the machine and its P2 quick machine movements, crowded, high power operators need for all of its intended applications, and all operational stages throughout the machine’s life cycle. By setting S, F and P for the risk, you will get the PL r All risk sources must then be identified for all work Performance Level (required) that is necessary for the risk operations throughout the machine’s life cycle. source. A risk estimation is made for each risk source, i.e. indication Finally, the risk assessment includes a
risk evaluation of the degree of risk. According to EN ISO 13849-1 the risk is where you determine if the risk needs to be reduced or if estimated using three factors: injury severity (S, severity), frequency sufficient safety is ensured. 4 | Safety in control systems according to EN ISO 13849-1 tnemssessa ksiR sisylana ksiR Working method as specified in EN ISO 13849-1 Step 1 Determine the system's scope (space, usage, time, environment) Identify risk sources (all work operations during the life cycle) Estimate the risk (determine PL with S, F and P) r Evaluate the risk (is action required?) Step 2 Reduce the risk (pre-empt, use protection, information) PL r Risk estimation low risk To calculate the performance level required (PLr). (cid:51) (cid:20) a (cid:41) S Severity of injury (cid:20) (cid:51) (cid:21) S1 slight (normally reversible injury) (cid:54) b S2 serious (normally irreversible injury or death) (cid:20) (cid:41) (cid:21) (cid:51) (cid:20) F Frequency and/or exposure to hazard (cid:51) (cid:21) F1 seldom to less often and/or exposure time is short c F2 frequent to continuous and/or exposure time is long (cid:51) (cid:20) (cid:41) P P ossibility of avoiding hazard or limiting harm (cid:20) (cid:51) (cid:21) (cid:54) d (cid:21) P1 possible under specific conditions P2 scarcely possible (cid:41) (cid:51) (cid:20) (cid:21) (cid:51) e (cid:21) high risk Step 2 – Reduce the risk If you determine that risk reduction is required, you must comply with the priority in the Machinery Directive in the selection of measures: 1. Avoid the risk already at the design stage. (For example, reduce power, avoid interference in the danger zone.) 2. Use protection and/or safety devices. (For example, fences, light grids or control devices.) 3. Provide information about how the machine can be used Step 3 safely. (For example, in manuals and on signs.) If risk reduction
is performed using safety devices, the control system that monitors these needs to be designed as Identify the safety functions specified in EN ISO 13849-1. Step 3 - Design and calculate the safety functions Determine PL r To begin with you need to identify the safety functions on the machine. (Examples of safety functions are emergency stop and monitoring of gate.) Design and implement the For each safety function, a PL should be established solution for the safety function r (which has often already been made in the risk assessment). The solution for the safety function is then designed and implemented. Once the design is complete, you can Calculate PL calculate the PL the safety function achieves. Check that the calculated PL is at least as high as PL and then validate the r system as per the validation plan. The validation checks that the specification of the system is carried out correctly and Verify that that the design complies with the specification.You will also PL ≥ PL r need to verify that the requirements that are not included in Yes the calculation of the PL are satisfied, that is, ensure that the Validate software is properly developed and validated, and that you No Have other have taken adequate steps to protect the technical solution require ments from systematic errors. been met? Yes Safety in control systems according to EN ISO 13849-1 | 5 ?detucexe snoitcnuf ytefas lla erA No PFH PL D 10-4 a 10-5 MTTF b d low 3x10-6 MTTF c d medium 10-6 MTTF d d high 10-7 e 10-8 DC DC DC DC DC DC DC none none low medium low medium high Cat. B Cat. 1 Cat. 2 Cat. 3 Cat. 4 The relationship between categories, the DC , MTTF for each channel and PL.
The table also shows the PFH -range that avg d D corresponds to each PL. PL calculation in Step 3 The manufacturer of switches, sensors and logic devices When you calculate the PL for a safety function, it is easiest often have PL and PFH -values for their components, but D to split it into separate, well defined blocks (also called for output devices (such as contactors and valves) you subsystems). It is often logical to make the breakdown do not usually specify a value as it depends on how often according to input, logic and output (e.g. switch - safety the component will be used. You can then either calculate relay - contactors), but there may be more than three blocks yourself according to EN ISO 13849-1 or use the pre- depending on the connection and the number of components calculated example solutions such as those from ABB used (an expansion relay could for example create an Jokab Safety. additional logic block). To calculate PL or PFH for a block, you need to know its D For each block, you calculate a PL or PFH -value. It is category, DC and MTTF . In addition, you need to protect D d easiest if you obtain these values from the component yourself against systematic errors and ensure that an error manufacturer, so you do not have to calculate yourself. does not knock out both channels, and generate and validate any software used correctly. The following text gives a brief explanation of what to do. Safety function (SF) Input Logic Output PL/PFH PL/PFH PL/PFH D D D PFH = PFH + PFH + PFH D,Total D,Input D, Logic D, Output 6 | Safety in control systems according to EN ISO 13849-1 Category failure). To calculate the MTTF , you also need
to know the d The structure for the component(s) in the block is assessed average number of cycles per year that the component will to determine the category (B, 1-4) it corresponds to. For execute. category 4, for example, individual failures do not result in With a B =2·106 this gives a MTTF =1,141 year which 10d d any loss of the safety function. corresponds to MTTF =high. d In order to achieve category 4 with contactors, you need Note that when you calculate MTTF you have to calculate d to have two channels - i.e., two contactors - that can cut the according to the total number of cycles the component will power to the machine individually. The contactors need to be working. A typical example of this is the contactors that be monitored by connecting opening contacts to a test input frequently work for several safety functions simultaneously. on, for example a safety relay. For monitoring of this type This means that you must add the number of estimated to work, the contactors need to have contacts with positive cycles per year from all the safety functions that use the opening operation. contactors. When MTTF is calculated from a B -value, also consider Diagnostic Coverage (DC) d 10d that if the MTTF -value is less than 200 years, the A simple method to determine DC is explained in Appendix d component needs to be replaced after 10 % of the MTTF - E in EN ISO 13849-1. It lists various measures and what they d value (due to the T -value). That is, a component with correspond to in terms of DC. For example, DC=99 % (which 10d MTTF = 160 years needs to be replaced after 16 years in corresponds to DC high) is achieved for a
