A GUIDE TO THE MACHINERY REGULATION (EU) 2023/1230 Key changes and challenges As the “go to” document for machine builders, the European machinery directive lays out the minimum safety requirements for machinery. The last change to the directive was on 29 December 2009, when 2006/42/EC was introduced. In 2020, as part of the commission work program ‘A Europe fit for the Digital Age’, the Machinery Directive underwent an impact assessment, and it was concluded that a number of gaps required addressing – namely (i) tackling new risks originating from emerging technologies; (ii) legal uncertainty on scope definitions; The Machinery (iii) insufficient provisions for high-risk machines; (iv) adoption of digital documentation; and (vi) divergences in transposition Regulation (EU) interpretation. As the implementation date draws closer, it is important for OEM/ 2023/12301 machine builders to understand the key changes and challenges. What is the impact on OEMs? For OEMs exporting or selling equipment in the EU this will replace the Machinery Directive 2006/42/EC. It highlights: • A new compliance route • A revised structure to the annexes to improve the flow • A dditional requirements added into the essential health and safety requirements • Digital documentation • Cybersecurity requirements 1 https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg/2023/1230/oj The Machinery Key Dates Re-ordering of Substantial Compliance Route/ OEM - Call to Action Further 2 Regulation (EU) PG 3 the annexes Modifications Fines & Penalties PG 11 Information PG 2 PG 4 PG 9 PG 10 PG 12 MACHINERY REGULATION (EU) 2023/1230 TIMELINE Key dates 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 The new Machinery Regulation (EU) 2023/1230 was published in the official journal on 29 June 2023, JUNE 2023 JULY 2025 JULY 2026 20 JANUARY 2027 and entered into force on 19 July Publication of Regulation Member States must First report by the member Application of Regulation 2023, with a 42-month
systems with fully or partially self-evolving behaviour with similar physical characteristics. using machine learning approaches ensuring safety functions that have not been 8. Portable chainsaws for woodworking. placed independently on the market, in respect only of those systems. 9. P resses, including press-brakes, for the cold working of metals, with manual loading and/or unloading, whose movable working parts may have a travel exceeding 6 mm and a speed exceeding 30 mm/s. PART B 10. I njection or compression plastics-molding machinery with manual loading or Categories of machinery or related products to which one of the procedures referred to in unloading. Article 25(3) shall be applied: 11. I njection or compression rubber-molding machinery with manual loading or 1. C ircular saws (single- or multi-blade) for working with wood and material with similar unloading. physical characteristics, or for working with meat and material with similar physical characteristics, of the following types: 12. M achinery for underground working of the following types: 1.1. s awing machinery with fixed blade(s) during cutting, having a fixed bed or support 12.1. locomotives and brake-vans; with manual feed of the workpiece or with a demountable power feed; 12.2. hydraulic-powered roof supports. 1.2. s awing machinery with fixed blade(s) during cutting, having a manually operated 13. M anually loaded trucks for the collection of household refuse incorporating a reciprocating saw-bench or carriage; compression mechanism. 1.3. s awing machinery with fixed blade(s) during cutting, having a built-in mechanical 14. D evices for the lifting of persons or of persons and goods involving a hazard of feed device for the workpieces, with manual loading and/or unloading; falling from a vertical height of more than 3 m. 1.4. s awing machinery with movable blade(s) during cutting, having mechanical 15. Protective devices designed to detect the presence of persons. movement of the
blade, with manual loading and/or unloading. 16. P ower-operated interlocking movable guards designed to be used as safeguards in 2. H and-fed surface planing machinery for woodworking. machinery referred to in points 9, 10 and 11 of this Part. 3. T hicknesses for one-side dressing having a built-in mechanical feed device, with 17. Logic units to ensure safety functions. manual loading and/or unloading for woodworking. 18. Roll-over protective structures (ROPS). 19. Falling-object protective structures (FOPS). The Machinery Key Dates Re-ordering of Substantial Compliance Route/ OEM - Call to Action Further 13 Regulation (EU) PG 3 the annexes Modifications Fines & Penalties PG 11 Information PG 2 PG 4 PG 9 PG 10 PG 12 BIBLIOGRAPHY • ANNEX II • INDICATIVE LIST OF SAFETY COMPONENTS 1. Guards for removable mechanical transmission devices. (e) energy-dissipating shock absorbers; 2. Protective devices designed to detect the presence of persons. (f) safety devices fitted to jacks of hydraulic power circuits and used to prevent falls; 3. P ower-operated interlocking movable guards designed to be used as safeguards in (g) safety switches containing electronic components. machinery referred to in points 9, 10 and 11 of Annex I, Part B. 18. Software ensuring safety functions. 4. Logic units to ensure safety functions. 19. S afety components with fully or partially self-evolving behavior using machine 5. Valves with additional means for failure detection intended for the control of dangerous learning approaches ensuring safety functions. movements of machinery. 20. F iltration systems intended to be integrated into machinery cabins in order to 6. Extraction systems for machinery emissions. protect operators or other persons against hazardous materials and substances, including plant protection products, and filters for such filtration systems. 7. G uards and protective devices designed to protect persons against moving parts involved in the process of the machinery. 8.
Monitoring devices for loading and movement control in lifting machinery. 9. Restraint systems to keep persons in their seats. 10. Emergency stop devices. 11. D ischarging systems to prevent the build-up of potentially dangerous electrostatic charges. 12. E nergy limiters and relief devices referred to in sections 1.5.7, 3.4.7 and 4.1.2.6 of Annex III. 13. Systems and devices to reduce the emission of noise and vibrations. 14. Roll-over protective structures (ROPS). 15. Falling-object protective structures (FOPS). 16. Two-hand control devices. 17. T he following components for machinery designed for lifting and/or lowering persons between different landings: (a) devices for locking landing doors; (b) d evices to prevent the load-carrying unit from falling or unchecked upwards movement; (c) overspeed limitation devices; (d) e nergy-accumulating shock absorbers, non-linear or with damping of the return movement; The Machinery Key Dates Re-ordering of Substantial Compliance Route/ OEM - Call to Action Further 14 Regulation (EU) PG 3 the annexes Modifications Fines & Penalties PG 11 Information PG 2 PG 4 PG 9 PG 10 PG 12 DISCLAIMER This ebook presents the Rockwell Automation perspective on the latest EU Machinery Regulation. It offers insights based on our current understanding and interpretation, in line with the current regulation status. Any actions taken based on this content are at your own risk. We recommend seeking and conducting further research to validate and supplement the information provided herein. Connect with us. Allen-Bradley and expanding human possibility are trademarks of Rockwell Automation, Inc. Trademarks not belonging to Rockwell Automation are property of their respective companies. Publication OEM-SP123A-EN-P - August 2024 Copyright © 2024 Rockwell Automation, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed in USA.
transition to (EU) 2023/1230 in the provide data and states that assesses the (EU) 2023/1230 for private Official Journal. information related to effectiveness of Articles companies the application date of 20 January machinery and related 6(4) and (5) products, including JULY 2023 2027. This date is the same for all whether specific events OCTOBER 2026 Regulation (EU) 2023/1230 have occurred. EU and EFTA countries; and being enters into force. Member States must notify the European Commission a regulation and not a directive of their penalty rules and measures. means it will be adopted at the same time with no modification. After 20 January 2027, all machinery BEFORE 20TH JANUARY 2027 and related products will need to meet the requirements of the new Machines must comply with the requirements of Directive 2006/42/EC; it will not be possible to issue declarations of regulation before being placed on conformity to Regulation (EU) 2023/1230. the market. AFTER 20TH JANUARY 2027 The key changes to the new Machines must comply with the requirements of machinery regulation include a Regulation (EU) 2023/1230 and be accompanied by an EU Declaration of Conformity under that regulation. reordering of the annexes from the current machinery directive 2006/42/EC, a focus on changing technologies, and the threat from It is the first regulation to tie together cybersecurity breaches. machinery safety and cybersecurity. The Machinery Key Dates Re-ordering of Substantial Compliance Route/ OEM - Call to Action Further 3 Regulation (EU) PG 3 the annexes Modifications Fines & Penalties PG 11 Information PG 2 PG 4 PG 9 PG 10 PG 12 Re-ordering of the annexes The annexes have been re-ordered to provide a better flow, with the essential health and safety regulations (EHSRs) moving to Annex III, and the requirements for categories of machines and products, and the indicative list of
safety components moving to Annex I &II. Annex IV details the requirements for any technical documentation needed to support compliance with the regulations, with Annex V providing the details for either a declaration of conformity or declaration of incorporation. Annex VI to Annex IX provide support for the compliance route to follow for the machinery or related product being manufactured. The Machinery Key Dates Re-ordering of Substantial Compliance Route/ OEM - Call to Action Further 4 Regulation (EU) PG 3 the annexes Modifications Fines & Penalties PG 11 Information PG 2 PG 4 PG 9 PG 10 PG 12 Categories of machinery or related products As mentioned previously, the annexes have been reordered to provide better flow. Annex I now covers - Categories of machines or related products and has been split into Part A and Part B. • PART A includes the addition of safety components and Annex I embedded safety systems with fully or partially self-evolving behaviour using machine learning approaches ensuring safety functions, a nod towards future solutions that may use AI technology. • PART B covers the majority of the current Annex IV machines in 2006/42/EC of the current machinery directive, with the exception of removable mechanical transmission devices, including their guards, guards for removable mechanical transmission devices, vehicle servicing lifts, and portable cartridge-operated fixing and other impact machinery, which are included in PART A. (see bibliography for Annex I categories of machinery or related products) The Machinery Key Dates Re-ordering of Substantial Compliance Route/ OEM - Call to Action Further 55 Regulation (EU) PG 3 the annexes Modifications Fines & Penalties PG 11 Information PG 2 PG 4 PG 9 PG 10 PG 12 Indicative list of safety components It also includes and covers the aspects for components and embedded safety systems using fully or
partially self-evolving Annex II behavior using machine learning approaches ensuring safety functions. The other addition in Annex II is filtration systems intended for integration into machinery cabins, in order to protect operators or other persons against hazardous materials and substances, including pesticides. It also covers filters for such filtration systems. (see bibliography for Annex I categories of machinery or related products) The Machinery Key Dates Re-ordering of Substantial Compliance Route/ OEM - Call to Action Further 66 Regulation (EU) PG 3 the annexes Modifications Fines & Penalties PG 11 Information PG 2 PG 4 PG 9 PG 10 PG 12 Essential health and safety requirements (EHSRs) This Annex has seen a number of significant additions including: Ergonomics (Clause 1.1.6) gives consideration to how operators interact with machinery or related products that have either fully or partially self-evolving behavior. Autonomous mobile machinery (Clause 3.6.3.3) gains extra requirements, which are included in annex III and the supplementary essential health and safety requirements to offset risks due to the mobility of machinery or related products. Protection against corruption (Clause 1.1.9) introduces cyber security requirements related to OT (Operational Technology) and has been added to cover the increase in industrial networks for safety systems, and also the generation of data to support Annex III the growth of connected enterprise solutions. It covers both hardware and software requirements. Machinery needs to ensure that the connection of another device – either locally or remotely – doesn’t lead to a hazardous situation. In addition, any hardware component that transmits signals or data and has access to software that is critical for the machinery’s compliance to relevant health and safety requirements, needs to be protected against both accidental or intentional corruption, and will collect evidence of both legitimate or illegitimate interventions. Finally, for protection against corruption, software and
data that are critical for the compliance of the machinery or related products with the relevant health and safety requirements, shall be identified as such and shall be adequately protected against accidental or intentional corruption. The machinery or related product shall identify the software installed on it that is necessary for it to operate safely; and shall be able to provide that information at all times in an easily accessible form. The machinery or related product shall collect evidence of a legitimate or illegitimate intervention in the software or a modification of the software installed on the machinery or related product or its configuration. The Machinery Key Dates Re-ordering of Substantial Compliance Route/ OEM - Call to Action Further 77 Regulation (EU) PG 3 the annexes Modifications Fines & Penalties PG 11 Information PG 2 PG 4 PG 9 PG 10 PG 12 Additional requirements have been included for control systems. Safety and reliability of control systems (Clause 1.2.1) Control systems shall be designed and constructed in such a way as to prevent hazardous situations from occuring. They also should withstand where appropriate to the circumstances and risks, the intended operating stresses and intended and unintended external influences, including reasonably foreseeable malicious attempts from third parties leading to a hazardous situation. It’s here that the link between safety and cybersecurity is evident. There is also the need for a tracing log containing the data generated in relation to an intervention, and of the versions of the safety software uploaded after the machinery or related product has been placed on the market or put into service. This needs to be enabled for five years after such an upload. The requirement here is exclusively to demonstrate the conformity of the machinery or the related product with this EHSRs should a reasonable request
from a competent national authority be made. For OEMs developing control systems or logic with fully or partially self-evolving behavior, that are designed to operate with varying levels of autonomy, additional requirements have been added into the EHSRs in Annex III. They shall not cause the machinery or related product to perform actions beyond their defined task and movement space. Recording of data on the safety related decision-making process for software-based safety systems ensuring safety functions must be enabled and retained for one year after the machinery or related product is place on to the market or put into service. At all times it must be possible to correct the machinery or related product in order to maintain its inherent safety. The Machinery Key Dates Re-ordering of Substantial Compliance Route/ OEM - Call to Action Further 88 Regulation (EU) PG 3 the annexes Modifications Fines & Penalties PG 11 Information PG 2 PG 4 PG 9 PG 10 PG 12 Substantial modifications – explanation of Article 3 (16) After being placed on the market or put into service, should machinery be modified, by physical or digital means (meaning hardware or software), in a way that is not foreseen by the manufacturer, and which affects the safety of such products by creating a new hazard or increasing an existing risk, the modification should be considered as substantial when significant new protective measures are required. The person that carries out the substantial modification should be required to perform a new conformity assessment before placing the modified product on the market or putting it into service. This conformity assessment can be restricted to the part of the production line that has been modified, and so does not have to be completed for the whole assembly. Five Steps to Improving The RA Safety Maturity
Step One Step Two Step Three Step Four Step Five The Machinery Key Dates Re-ordering of Substantial Compliance Route/ OEM - Call to Action Further Safety Maturity Improvement Process PG 7 PG 11 PG 13 PG 15 PG 20 9 Regulation (EU) PG 3 the annexes Modifications Fines & Penalties PG 11 Information PG 2 PG 6 PG 2 PG 4 PG 9 PG 10 PG 12 Compliance Route There is more emphasis in the regulation for third-party certification. However, self- certification is still possible as long as the COMPLIANCE ROUTE machinery is in Annex I Part B and is built preferably using harmonized standards or a common specification. If the machinery is not in Annex I, the preferred route is to follow harmonized standards. The compliance route for ANNEX VIII MODULE ANNEX VII MODULE C CONFORMITY this type of equipment is in Annex VI module A. ANNEX I PART A B EU TYPE TO TYPE BASED EXAMINATION ON INTERNAL PRODUCTION For all other equipment, third-party certification CONTROL CE MARK ANNEX IX MODULE ANNEX V through a notified body is required. H FULL QUALITY DECLARATION OF REGULATION 765/2008 + ASSURANCE CONFORMITY NOTIFIED BODY ID The route to compliance is covered in Annexes NOT FULLY DESIGNED TO ANNEX X VII VIII & IX of the Machinery Regulation (EU) HARMONISED MODULE G UNIT STANDARDS VERIFICATION 2023/12302. OR COMMON SPECIFICATIONS 2 https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/ MACHINERY FULLY DESIGNED ANNEX VI MODULE TXT/?uri=CELEX:32023R1230 & RELATED ANNEX I PART B TO HARMONISED A INTERNAL ANNEX V CE MARK PRODUCT STANDARDS PRODUCTION DECLARATION OF REGULATION OR COMMON CONTROL CONFORMITY 765/2008 SPECIFICATIONS Fines & Penalties Article 50 empowers member states to define PREFERENCE TO NOT LISTED IN the exact size of the fines and penalties USE HARMONISED ANNEX I STANDARDS against the Machinery Regulations (EU) 2023/1230. Although not yet confirmed
it is expected that these will aligned with other recent directives, such as the Network & Information Security Directive (NIS2) which can impose fines of up to €10,000,000 or 2% of global annual revenue. Five Steps to Improving The RA Safety Maturity Step One Step Two Step Three Step Four Step Five The Machinery Key Dates Re-ordering of Substantial Compliance Route/ OEM - Call to Action Further Safety Maturity Improvement Process PG 7 PG 11 PG 13 PG 15 PG 20 10 Regulation (EU) PG 3 the annexes Modifications Fines & Penalties PG 11 Information PG 2 PG 6 PG 2 PG 4 PG 9 PG 10 PG 12 OEM – Call to Action As an OEM, download Identify the changes If you have any form Review, update, or Finally, keep yourself a copy of the that affect you and your of network, conduct generate cybersecurity updated. Machinery Regulation machinery. With the a vulnerability policy documents. Learn more here 2023/1230 and review additional requirements assessment to allow This may need the the document. The for protection the development of organization to partner Machinery Regulation against corruption, relevant cybersecurity with a third-party can be found here. Rockwell Automation requirements, and consultancy. recommends you then implement the Learn more here conduct a cyber risk necessary mitigation / assessment. technology. Learn more here Learn more here The Machinery Key Dates Re-ordering of Substantial Compliance Route/ OEM - Call to Action Further 11 Regulation (EU) PG 3 the annexes Modifications Fines & Penalties PG 11 Information PG 2 PG 4 PG 9 PG 10 PG 12 Further Information The Rockwell Automation website will provide further details on the Machinery Regulation (EU) 2023/1230 and also provide updates as the standards covering the new requirements highlighted in this guide are released. If you’re looking to enhance
the performance, safety, and productivity of your business, you might want to learn more about the services, tools, and technology available. You can check out this webpage to explore the best-in-class options available for your business needs and outcomes. If you’re interested in learning more about industrial cybersecurity and how to protect your operational technology (OT) environment, check out our latest cybersecurity resources here. The Machinery Key Dates Re-ordering of Substantial Compliance Route/ OEM - Call to Action Further 12 Regulation (EU) PG 3 the annexes Modifications Fines & Penalties PG 11 Information PG 2 PG 4 PG 9 PG 10 PG 12 BIBLIOGRAPHY • ANNEX I • CATEGORIES OF MACHINERY OR RELATED PRODUCTS PART A 4. B andsaws with manual loading and/or unloading for working with wood and material with similar physical characteristics, or for working with meat and material with Categories of machinery or related products to which a procedure referred to in similar physical characteristics, of the following types: Article 25(2) shall be applied: 4.1. s awing machinery with fixed blade(s) during cutting, having a fixed or 1. Removable mechanical transmission devices including their guards. reciprocating-movement bed or support for the workpiece; 2. Guards for removable mechanical transmission devices. 4.2. sawing machinery with blade(s) assembled on a carriage with reciprocating motion. 3. Vehicle servicing lifts. 5. C ombined machinery of the types referred to in points 1 to 4 and in point 7 for 4. Portable cartridge-operated fixing and other impact machinery. working with wood and material with similar physical characteristics. 5. S afety components with fully or partially self-evolving behaviour using machine 6. Hand-fed tenoning machinery with several tool holders for woodworking. learning approaches ensuring safety functions. 7. H and-fed vertical spindle molding machinery for working with wood and material 6. M achinery that has embedded
