their components, but D to split it into separate, well defined blocks (also called for output devices (such as contactors and valves) you subsystems). It is often logical to make the breakdown do not usually specify a value as it depends on how often according to input, logic and output (e.g. switch - safety the component will be used. You can then either calculate relay - contactors), but there may be more than three blocks yourself according to EN ISO 13849-1 or use the pre- depending on the connection and the number of components calculated example solutions such as those from ABB used (an expansion relay could for example create an Jokab Safety. additional logic block). To calculate PL or PFH for a block, you need to know its D For each block, you calculate a PL or PFH -value. It is category, DC and MTTF . In addition, you need to protect D d easiest if you obtain these values from the component yourself against systematic errors and ensure that an error manufacturer, so you do not have to calculate yourself. does not knock out both channels, and generate and validate any software used correctly. The following text gives a brief explanation of what to do. Safety function (SF) Input Logic Output PL/PFH PL/PFH PL/PFH D D D PFH = PFH + PFH + PFH D,Total D,Input D, Logic D, Output 6 | Safety in control systems according to EN ISO 13849-1 Category failure). To calculate the MTTF , you also need to know the d The structure for the component(s) in the block is assessed average number of cycles per year that the component will to determine the category (B, 1-4) it corresponds to. For execute. category 4, for example, individual failures do not result in With a B =2·106 this gives a MTTF =1,141 year which 10d d any loss of the safety function. corresponds to MTTF =high. d In order to achieve category 4 with contactors, you need Note that when you calculate MTTF you have to calculate d to have two channels - i.e., two contactors - that can cut the according to the total number of cycles the component will power to the machine individually. The contactors need to be working. A typical example of this is the contactors that be monitored by connecting opening contacts to a test input frequently work for several safety functions simultaneously. on, for example a safety relay. For monitoring of this type This means that you must add the number of estimated to work, the contactors need to have contacts with positive cycles per year from all the safety functions that use the opening operation. contactors. When MTTF is calculated from a B -value, also consider Diagnostic Coverage (DC) d 10d that if the MTTF -value is less than 200 years, the A simple method to determine DC is explained in Appendix d component needs to be replaced after 10 % of the MTTF - E in EN ISO 13849-1. It lists various measures and what they d value (due to the T -value). That is, a component with correspond to in terms of DC. For example, DC=99 % (which 10d MTTF = 160 years needs to be replaced after 16 years in corresponds to DC high) is achieved for a