of combining various safety components systems (e.g. emergency stop button and door contact) • One software for all systems • Easy configuration of the circuit • Easy programming for PL e by using function blocks • Electromechanical switches can also be used (with (certified by TÜV) the addition of the Tina adaptation device) More than 70,000 Vital systems have been More than 30,000 Pluto systems have been successfully installed. successfully installed. Safety in control systems according to EN ISO 13849-1 | 17 Production-friendly safety systems from ABB Jokab Safety Quick-Guard fencing system prevents unauthorised access and offers noise reduction Magne magnetic lock to keep doors closed during a process Smile emergency stop to stop machinery when there is a hazard The Eden sensor monitors that doors are closed 3-position devicedevice for troubleshooting Pluto Safety PLC, Vital and safety relays for monitoring protection Safeball control device for ergonomic and safe two-handed control Smart stopping timer Focus light curtain to assist in determining protection locations with finger detection Focus light beam to provide protection when entering an area 18 | Safety in control systems according to EN ISO 13849-1 Product groups Training & Advice Practical application of standards and regulations, along with CE-labelling. Dalton process lock Pluto Safety PLC to keep doors closed during a process AS-i Profibus DP A unique All-Master safety PLC for DeviceNet CANopen Ethernet dynamic and static safety circuits. HMI Emergency stop Inca Pluto AS-i for enclosure installation Programmable safety system AS-i where all units are connected to the same bus cable and the function of the unit is determined in the PLC program. Vital safety controller Dynamic safety circuit for multiple protection according to the highest safety category Tina adapter units Transformation of static signals to dynamic safety signals, etc. Sadety relays The market’s most flexible safety relays for different protection purposes and categories. Stopping time & machinery diagnosis Used for stopping time measurement, annual maintenance and for trouble - shooting machinery. Light curtain/light beam/scanner Sensitive edges Complete range of light beams, light prevents against trapping injuries curtains and scanners. Roller doors Sensors/switches/locks for short protection distances Dynamic non-contact sensors, safety and noise reduction switches, magnetic switches and locks. Control devices Operational mode Ergonomic three-position control units, locked and reset two-handed control units and foot Reset pedals. Openable Knox safety lock Open Emergency stop devices Emergency stop devices for dynamic and ensures that doors are locked static safety circuits. Contact strips/Bumpers/Safety mats Sensitive edges bumpers and safetys mats. Fencing systems/SafeCAD/Roller doors A stable and flexible fencing system that is easy to install. Safety in control systems according to EN ISO 13849-1 | 19 Contact us ABB AB Jokab Safety Tel. +46 300-67 59 00 www.abb.com/lowvoltage 1102 ,ytefaS bakoJ BBA 20020B300271CLT2 solutions in avoid making calculations by hand. You also get help to accordance with EN ISO 13849-1 and calculate the reliability structure your safety solutions and provide the necessary of the safety functions to be used for a particular machine. documentation. The examples in this document are simplified in order to provide an understanding of the principles. The values used 3. Use Pluto or Vital in the examples can change. Use the Pluto safety PLC or Vital safety controller. Not only is it easier to make calculations, but above all it is easier to ensure a higher level of safety. 2 | Safety in control systems according to EN ISO 13849-1 We develop innovative products and solutions for machine safety We make it easy to build protection systems. Developing innovative products and solutions for machine safety has been our business concept since the company started in Sweden in 1988. Our vision is to be “Your partner for machine safety - globally and locally”. Many companies, both in Sweden and abroad, have discovered how much easier it is to build safety and protection systems using products and guidance from us. The goal of our development is to ensure a high safety level (PL e). This is to help our customers create safe workplaces, regardless of who is assessing the risk level. Experience We have extensive experience in the practical application of regulations and standards from both authorities and manufacturing operations. We represent Sweden in the standards body for machinery safety and we work daily with the practical application of safety requirements in combination with production requirements. You can utilise our expertise for training and advice about the new Machinery Directive, risk analysis and safety in control systems. Systems We supply everything from a safety solution for a complete protection system installed on individual machines or entire production lines. We combine production requirements with Contents: safety requirements for production-friendly solutions. Page 2 Introduction Products Page 4 Work method according to EN ISO 13849-1 We have a complete range of safety components that Page 8 Case study using RT9 make it easy to build protection systems. We develop these Page 10 Case study using Vital innovative products continuously, often in collaboration with Page 12 Case study using Pluto our customers. Page 14 What defines a safety function? Page 16 SISTEMA Page 17 Safety relay, Vital or Pluto? Terms as specified in EN ISO 13849-1 PL P erformance Level T Mean time until 10 % of the components have a 10d Divided into a to e dangerous failure (Component operating time is restricted to T ) 10d PL Required Performance Level r (The required performance level for a particular CCF Common Cause Failure safety function) DC Diagnostic Coverage MTTF Mean Time To Dangerous Failure is divided into Divided into Low, Medium and High d Low, Medium and High PFH Probability of Dangerous Failure per Hour D B Number of cycles until 10 % of the components (Average probability of dangerous failure per hour) 10d have a dangerous failure (for pneumatic and electromechanical components) The description and example in this document show how the product works and can be used. This does not mean that it satisfies the requirements for all types of machines and processes. The purchaser/user is responsible for the