product being installed and used in line with applicable regulations and standards. We reserve the right to make changes to the product and product sheet without prior notice. Safety in control systems according to EN ISO 13849-1 | 3 Start Yes No Are new risks generated? Has the risk Yes been adequately End reduced? No No Is the measure dependent on the Yes control system? Risk assessment and risk minimisation of exposure to the risk (F, frequency) and the possibility you have According to the Machinery Directive, the machine builder of avoiding or limiting the injury (P, possibility). For each factor two (anyone who builds or modifies a machine) is required to options are given. Where the boundary between the two options perform a risk assessment for the machine design and also lies is not specified in the standard, but the following are common include an assessment of all the work operations that need interpretations: to be performed. The EN ISO 12100 standard (combination of EN ISO 14121-1 and EN ISO 12100-1/-2) stipulates the S1 bruises, abrasions, puncture wounds and minor requirements for the risk assessment of a machine. It is crushing injuries this that EN ISO 13849-1 is based on, and a completed risk S2 skeletal injuries, amputations and death assessment is a prerequisite for being able to work with the F1 less frequently than every two weeks standard. F2 more often than every two weeks Step 1 – Risk assessment P1 slow machine movements, plenty of space, low A risk assessment begins with determining the scope of the power machine. This includes the space that the machine and its P2 quick machine movements, crowded, high power operators need for all of its intended applications, and all operational stages throughout the machine’s life cycle. By setting S, F and P for the risk, you will get the PL r All risk sources must then be identified for all work Performance Level (required) that is necessary for the risk operations throughout the machine’s life cycle. source. A risk estimation is made for each risk source, i.e. indication Finally, the risk assessment includes a risk evaluation of the degree of risk. According to EN ISO 13849-1 the risk is where you determine if the risk needs to be reduced or if estimated using three factors: injury severity (S, severity), frequency sufficient safety is ensured. 4 | Safety in control systems according to EN ISO 13849-1 tnemssessa ksiR sisylana ksiR Working method as specified in EN ISO 13849-1 Step 1 Determine the system's scope (space, usage, time, environment) Identify risk sources (all work operations during the life cycle) Estimate the risk (determine PL with S, F and P) r Evaluate the risk (is action required?) Step 2 Reduce the risk (pre-empt, use protection, information) PL r Risk estimation low risk To calculate the performance level required (PLr). (cid:51) (cid:20) a (cid:41) S Severity of injury (cid:20) (cid:51) (cid:21) S1 slight (normally reversible injury) (cid:54) b S2 serious (normally irreversible injury or death) (cid:20) (cid:41) (cid:21) (cid:51) (cid:20) F Frequency and/or exposure to hazard (cid:51) (cid:21) F1 seldom to less often and/or exposure time is short c F2 frequent to continuous and/or exposure time is long (cid:51) (cid:20) (cid:41) P P ossibility of avoiding hazard or limiting harm (cid:20) (cid:51) (cid:21) (cid:54) d (cid:21) P1 possible under specific conditions P2 scarcely possible (cid:41) (cid:51) (cid:20) (cid:21) (cid:51) e (cid:21) high risk Step 2 – Reduce the risk If you determine that risk reduction is required, you must comply with the priority in the Machinery Directive in the selection of measures: 1. Avoid the risk already at the design stage. (For example, reduce power, avoid interference in the danger zone.) 2. Use protection and/or safety devices. (For example, fences, light grids or control devices.) 3. Provide information about how the machine can be used Step 3 safely. (For example, in manuals and on signs.) If risk reduction is performed using safety devices, the control system that monitors these needs to be designed as Identify the safety functions specified in EN ISO 13849-1. Step 3 - Design and calculate the safety functions Determine PL r To begin with you need to identify the safety functions on the machine. (Examples of safety functions are emergency stop and monitoring of gate.) Design and implement the For each safety function, a PL should be established solution for the safety function r (which has often already been made in the risk assessment). The solution for the safety function is then designed and implemented. Once the design is complete, you can Calculate PL calculate the PL the safety function achieves. Check that the calculated PL is at least as high as PL and then validate the r system as per the validation plan. The validation checks that the specification of the system is carried out correctly and Verify that that the design complies with the specification.You will also PL ≥ PL r need to verify that the requirements that are not included in Yes the calculation of the PL are satisfied, that is, ensure that the Validate software is properly developed and validated, and that you No Have other have taken adequate steps to protect the technical solution require ments from systematic errors. been met? Yes Safety in control systems according to EN ISO 13849-1 | 5 ?detucexe snoitcnuf ytefas lla erA No PFH PL D 10-4 a 10-5 MTTF b d low 3x10-6 MTTF c d medium 10-6 MTTF d d high 10-7 e 10-8 DC DC DC DC DC DC DC none none low medium low medium high Cat. B Cat. 1 Cat. 2 Cat. 3 Cat. 4 The relationship between categories, the DC , MTTF for each channel and PL. The table also shows the PFH -range that avg d D corresponds to each PL. PL calculation in Step 3 The manufacturer of switches, sensors and logic devices When you calculate the PL for a safety function, it is easiest often have PL and PFH -values for