Safety in control systems according to EN ISO 13849-1 Machine Safety - Jokab Safety products New standards for safety in control systems Building a protection system that works in practice and provides sufficient safety requires expertise in several areas. The design of the safety functions in the protection system in order to ensure they provide sufficient reliability is a key ingredient. As help for this there is, for example, the EN ISO 13849-1 standard. With this document we aim to provide an introduction to the standard and its application in conjunction with our products. Introducing the new standard What is PL (Performance Level)? The generation change for standards on safety in control PL is a measure of the reliability of a safety function. PL is systems introduces new concepts and calculations for divided into five levels (a-e). PL e gives the best reliability and machine builders and machine users. The EN 954-1 standard is equivalent to that required at the highest level of risk. (categories) is being phased out and replaced by EN ISO To calculate which level the PL system achieves you 13849-1 (PL, Performance Level) and EN 62061 (SIL, Safety need to know the following: Integrity Level). Although the deadline for using EN 954-1 is • The system’s structure (categories B, 1-4) set to 31/12/2011, it is beneficial to start applying the new • The Mean Time To dangerous Failure of the component standards as soon as possible as many new standards no (MTTF longer refer to EN 954-1. d) • The system’s Diagnostic Coverage (DC) PL or SIL? What should I use? You will also need to: • protect the system against a failure that knocks out both The standard you should use depends on the choice of channels (CCF) technology, experience and customer requirements. • protect pair of contactors d order for the conditions for achieving PL to continue to be by monitoring the contactors with the logic device. valid. This is because EN ISO 13849-1 is based on a “mission Mean Time To dangerous Failure (MTTF d ) time” of 20 years. The MTTF -value should primarily come from the d Common Cause Failure (CCF) manufacturer. If the manufacturer cannot provide values, In Appendix F of EN ISO 13849-1 there is a table of actions they are given from tables in EN ISO 13849-1 or you have to be taken to protect against CCF, to ensure a failure does to calculate MTTF using the B -value, (average number d 10d not knock out both channels. of cycles until 10 % of the components have a dangerous Systematic errors Appendix G of EN ISO 13849-1 describes a range of actions Calculation of the average number of cycles is as that need to be taken to protect against incorporating faults follows: into your design. B 10d MTTF d = PL for safety functions 0,1 • n op PL is given in the table on the facing page. If you want to use Where an exact PFH -value instead, this can be produced using a D d op • h op • 3600 table in Appendix K in EN ISO 13849-1. n = op t Once you have produced the PL for each block, you can cycle generate a total PL for the safety function in Table 11 of n = Number of cycles per year op EN ISO 13849-1. This gives a rough estimate of the PL. If d = Operation days per year op you have calculated PFH for each block instead, you can h = Operation hours per day D op get a total of PFH for the safety function by adding together t = Cycle time (seconds) D cycle all the values of the blocks. The safety function’s total PFH D corresponds to a particular PL in Table 3 of EN ISO 13849-1. Example: d = 365 days, h = 24 hours and t = 1,800 op op cycle seconds (2 times/hour) which gives nop= 17,520 cycles. Requirements for safety-related software If you use a safety PLC for implementing safety functions, The following are examples of requirements for software this places requirements on how the software is from EN ISO 13849-1: developed and validated. To avoid error conditions, the • A development life cycle must be produced with software should be readable, understandable and be validation measures that indicate how and when the possible to test and maintain. program should be validated, for example, following a A software specification must be prepared to ensure change. that you can check the functionality of the program. It is • The specification and design must be documented. also important to divide the program into modules that • Function tests must be performed. can be tested individually. Paragraph 4.6 and Appendix • Validated functional blocks must be used whenever J of EN ISO 13849-1 specify requirements for safety possible. related software. • Data and control flow are to be described using, for example, a condition diagram or software flow chart. Safety in control systems according to EN ISO 13849-1 | 7 Example 1 Safety system using RT9 Protection layout for a packaging machine with low risks. Key switch JSNY8 Monitors that the door is closed. Safety relay RT9 Monitors safety components. Emergency stop button To stop the machine in case of danger. Step 1 – Risk assessment Step 2 – Reduce the risk Food to be packaged is loaded into the cell manually through As protection, an interlocked door is selected with the key the rear door. A batch is prepared for the packing conveyor switch JSNY8. Downtime is short enough for the dangerous in the infeed hopper. The cell is reset and restarted. The movement to have stopped before the operator can access packaging machine with conveyor belt only operates hen it. The emergency stop is placed within easy reach, on both both doors are closed and when the protection system has sides of the cell near the locked doors. been reset. In the risk assessment it