value applies to ABB industrial robots with IRC5 in a cell, the safety functions can be defined in different ways controller). depending on the risk analysis. The safety functions are Only safety functions to help cut the power to the industrial represented by block diagrams. Safety function 1 Input Logic Output Result B1 K1 Q1 No contact safety Safety/PlC Machine stop input PL=e PL e r sensor Eden Pluto for robot, redundant PL e PL e PL e PFH , + PFH , + PFH , = 4,5·10-9 + 2·10-9 + 5,79·10-8 = 6,44·10-8 PL e D Eden D Pluto D Robot Safety function 2 Input Logic Output Result S2 K1 Q1 PL=e E-Stop button Safety/PlC Machine stop input PL e r Smile Tina Pluto for robot, redundant PL e PL e PL e PFH + PFH + PFH = 4,66·10-9 + 2·10-9 + 5,79·10-8= 6,46·10-8 PL e D, Smile Tina D, Pluto D, Robot Safety function 3 Input Logic Output Result B5 K1 Q1 PL=e Light curtain Tina 10A Safety/PlC Machine stop input PL e r Focus PL e Pluto for robot, redundant PL e PL e PL e PFH + PFH + PFH = 5,02·10-9 + 2·10-9 + 5,79·10-8 = 6,49·10-8 PL e D,Focus D, Pluto D, Robot These safety functions with Pluto meet PL e in accordance with EN ISO 13849-1. Note that the above functions are only selected examples of the safety functions that appear in the robot cell. Safety in control systems according to EN ISO 13849-1 | 13 What defines a safety function? Calculating that you have achieved the PL that is required is not difficult, especially if you use “pre-calculated” r safety devices and logic units. But what parts should then be included in each safety function? This must be resolved before you the system from systematic errors built into the Choice of technology design • PL (Performance Level) is a technology-neutral concept • follow certain rules to ensure software can be developed that can be used for electrical, mechanical, pneumatic and and validated in the right way hydraulic safety solutions. • SIL (Safety Integrity Level) can, however, only be used for The five PL-levels (a-e) correspond to certain ranges of PFH - D electrical, electronic or programmable safety solutions. values (probability of dangerous failure per hour). These indicate how likely it is that a dangerous failure could occur Experience over a period of one hour. In the calculation, it is beneficial EN ISO 13849-1 uses categories from EN 954-1 for defining to use PFH -values directly as the PL is a simplification that the system structure, and therefore the step to the new D does not provide equally accurate results. calculations is not so great if you have previous experience of the categories. EN 62061 defines the structures slightly What is the easiest way of complying differently. with the standard? Customer requirements If the customer comes from an industry that is accustomed 1. Use pre-calculated components to using SIL (e.g. the process industry), requirements can As far as it is possible, use the components with pre- also include safety functions for machine safety being SIL calculated PL and PFH D -values. You then minimise rated. the number of calculations to be performed. All ABB Jokab Safety products have pre-calculated PFH -values. D We notice that most of our customers prefer PL as it is technology-neutral and that they can use their previous 2. Use the calculation tool knowledge in the categories. In this document we show With the freeware application SISTEMA (see page 16) you some examples of how to build safety start calculating phase. To summarise in simple terms you can say that each safety device gives rise to a safety function for each machine that is affected by the safety device in question. Three safety devices that all cut the power to three machines in a cell is therefore equal to nine safety functions. In the section that follows, we explain the background. Multiple safety functions for a machine Three safety functions (SF) are defined for the machine and Multiple safety devices are often used on a machine in are calculated as: order to provide satisfactory and practical protection for SF1: PFH , + PFH , + PFH , = PFH , D F1 D K1 D Q1 D SF1 the operators. In the following example, the machine is SF2: PFH , + PFH , + PFH , = PFH , D B1 D K1 D Q1 D SF2 protected by three safety devices connected to a logic SF3: PFH , + PFH , + PFH , = PFH , D S1 D K1 D Q1 D SF3 device. The following figure illustrates this interconnection schematically. SF1 F1 Light curtain B1 K1 Q1 SF2 Interlocked switch Logic unit Machine S1 E-Stop button SF3 Multiple safety functions for multiple machines in a cell If the operator enters the cell, he is exposed in this case to More commonly, several machines in a single cell/zone are to the same type of risk from all three machines. The power to be protected by multiple safety devices. The following figure all three machines must be cut when the operator enters the illustrates the interconnection schematically for an example. cell through the door interlocked by B1. Each of the machines Q1 – Q3 is shut down separately and independently of K1. F1 Q1 Light curtain Machine 1 B1 K1 Q2 Interlocked switch Logic unit Machine 2 S1 Q3 E-Stop button Machine 3 14 | Safety in control systems according to EN ISO 13849-1 Theoretical approach for multiple machines Practical approach for multiple machines The theoretical approach to calculate the safety function is as A more practical approach is to divide the safety function into follows: three parts, one for each of the three machines. This is an approach that can provide a more accurate way of B1 K1 Q1 Q2 Q3 Interlocked Logic Machine Machine Machine B1 K1 Q1 switch unit 1 2 3 Interlocked