assumed as an estimate, i.e. B = 2 * B . 10D 10 However, even in the new edition of the standard, the additional condition applies that the T value is 10D limited to a maximum of 2 * T where the RDF is below 50%. This increases the B value (and the 10 10D MTTF value derived from it) for a small ratio of dangerous failures, but not the T value, i.e. the time D 10D after which a component with mechanical wear must be replaced in order to maintain the identified PL. Fourth Edition of EN ISO 13849-1 (July 2023) 9 / 12 13 Annex D: Diagnostic coverage In Table E.1 with examples of fault detection measures, there are now additional notes for the estimated DC, where previously a range of achievable DC values was provided: • An FMEA (failure mode and effects analysis) must generally be used as the basis for determining the DC in the actual application. • When monitoring outputs and cross-monitoring input or output signals without dynamic testing, the test rate resulting from the relevant application can act as a limiting factor for the DC, e.g. by allowing only tests that occur at least once a month to achieve a DC of 99%, and by estimating tests at a DC of 0% if they occur less frequently than once a year. • For fault detection by the process, the ratio between the process diagnostic rate (test rate) and the demand rate of the safety function can be used to limit the achievable effective DC value down to a value of 60%. • Several DC measures acting on a component can be combined to achieve a higher DC. Furthermore, this combination of DC measures can overcome the limitation that fault detection by the process is insufficient as the only measure for PL e. r 14 Annexes F and I: CCFs and examples showing the simplified procedure to estimate PL Measures against common cause failures (CCFs) are now only listed in Table F.1, but are described in more detail than previously in the new subsection F.3. A new note has been added, emphasising that where SRP/CS are not sufficiently protected against over-voltage or other environmental influences at the component level, the required protection can also be achieved at the system level, e.g. through external protection components, filters or shielding. Anti-CCF measures are usually assessed at the subsystem level, as they can differ from one subsystem to another. The assessment must be based on expected use, including foreseeable faults and reasonably foreseeable misuse. An engineering assessment serves to eliminate typical causes of CCF wherever possible or to reduce the effects of the causes. This assessment, too, must be documented. Accordingly, in the second example in Annex I, which serves to illustrate the simplified procedure for estimating the PLs of subsystems, the anti-CCF measures are now each specified in detail. 15 Annex G: Systematic failure and functional safety plan The reference to Annex F of IEC 61508-2 on avoidance of systematic failures in the design of ASICs, FPGAs and PLDs has been removed, but continues to be implicitly applicable. A new subsection G.5 specifies how functional safety management methods can be used to implement the standard requirements arising from section 6.1.7. The aim is to specify a systematic approach to designing and implementing SRP/CS and thus to prevent faulty specification, implementation and modification. The centrepiece is a functional safety plan that documents all activities in this regard. Its form and extent depend, for example, on the project size, complexity and novelty. Its purpose is to identify all the relevant activities throughout the design process, from specification to validation and modification, and to describe the relevant responsibilities, resources and procedures. Fourth Edition of EN ISO 13849-1 (July 2023) 10 / 12 16 Annex L: Electromagnetic interference immunity Since the third edition of the standard, there has been the introduction of a new generic standard – IEC 61000-6-7 [8] – on immunity requirements for safety-related functional safety systems. To facilitate their implementation, a new informative Annex L now provides guidance on the implementation of the required measures for electromagnetic interference immunity. Depending on the application, four alternative options are provided: A. Electromagnetic immunity requirements from an applicable product standard have the highest priority (independent of the PL that is to be achieved) and override the general requirements of the generic standard. B. For PL a and PL b, compliance with the lower immunity requirements of IEC 61000-6-2 [9] for industrial settings that are not designed for functional safety is considered sufficient. C. Up to PL d (and even up to PL e if the requirements for category 4 are met), the necessary immunity can also be achieved through protective measures at the system level, such as shielding, filters, interference-resistant cables, separation, fault detection or risk analysis, instead of through interference immunity tests. This alternative verification strategy is also expressly mentioned in IEC 61000-6-7, 4.1, Note 1. Table L.1 of the standard lists 23 different measures for this purpose, with compliance resulting in 10 to 30 points. The immunity requirements are considered to be met if the total score for two-channel systems (Categories 2, 3 and 4) is at least 280, or if the total score for single-channel systems (Categories B and 1) is at least 230. Five measures are not applicable to single-channel subsystems. Eight of the listed measures are marked as strongly recommended: If they are applicable but have not been implemented, detailed justification must be provided as to how immunity is to be achieved in an equivalent manner. D. Up to PL e, compliance with the increased immunity levels can be demonstrated by applying IEC 61000-6-7 or other general EMC standards on functional safety, such as IEC 61326-3-1. 17 Annex O: Device types A new Annex O defines four device types and associated characteristic values, which must be specified, for example, in the manufacturer’s data sheet. While subsystems (device types 1 and 4) are usually specified in terms