failure per hour” is now referred to as “average frequency of a dangerous failure per hour”. Its abbreviation has been changed back to PFH (without the “D” index), to ensure that it has the same name as in the IEC standards on functional safety. This does not result in technical changes. 4 Section 4: Overview To meet the stated aim of an improved structure, this section starts first with items from the previous section 4 “Design Aspects” on embedding in the iterative process of risk assessment and risk reduction as specified in EN ISO 12100. Figure 2 of the standard shows, as did Figure 1, that the application of EN ISO 13849-1 must be regarded as stage 2 of the risk reduction process, i.e. as risk reduction through technical protective measures. This is followed by a brief overview of the subsequent sections of the standard, based on the typical workflow of a design process for SRP/CS: The specification of safety functions (including their PL) is followed by the technical realisation and r specification of PLs, including their validation and documentation. This section finishes with an overview of the basic options for realising a safety function: • integration of subsystems that have previously been validated under a functional safety standard for machine control systems, • proprietary design of a new subsystem based on EN ISO 13849 itself or • combination of subsystems of both of the above options. All requirements on the design of subsystems, including hardware and software, have been moved to section 6 and subsequent sections, as safety functions need to be defined first in the development process. 5 Section 5: Specification of safety functions and Annex M Safety functions now need to be defined in detail as part of a safety requirements specification (SRS) The definition of each safety function continues to be based on the risk assessment and reduction process as per EN ISO 12100. The required details for a precise and complete definition of each safety function include the following items: Fourth Edition of EN ISO 13849-1 (July 2023) 3 / 12 • brief description or title (as a unique reference), • triggering event that demands the safety function, • required reaction that must be initiated by the safety function in order to achieve the intended safe state, • required performance level PL, r • permitted response time, i.e. the time between demanding the safety function and achieving the safe state, • operating modes in which the safety function must be active, • interfaces of the safety function with the machine control system and with other safety functions, • if necessary, a description of the failure response, i.e. how the machine can be returned to a safe state after a fault has been detected in a functional channel, • behaviour of the machine in the event of energy loss, e.g. a requirement for non-return valves directly on a cylinder or additional mechanical brakes (separation into two safety functions is also possible – one with available energy or a second one without available energy), • demand rate for the safety function, • prioritisation of different safety functions that can be enabled at the same time and can trigger conflicting responses, • additional safety requirements from product standards (type-C standards), • conditions permitting a restart after the safety function has been requested. Further guidance on this topic can also be found in SISTEMA Cookbook 6 [5]. What follows is the familiar additional requirements for special safety functions, such as a safety- related stop function, a manual reset function, etc. Regarding a manual reset, the authors clarify that a monitored signal change is required in order to avoid foreseeable misuse. In practice, this means that a falling or rising signal edge is suitable for triggering a manual reset. As the response time now needs to be specified in general terms, it is no longer required as a separate item. As a new element, the standard specifies additional requirements for the selection of the operating mode, with a view to preventing any negative impacts on other safety functions. If operating mode selection enables or disables safety functions, it is treated as a safety function in its own right. The authors have also added notes on safety functions for maintenance and servicing tasks. The familiar tables with references to international standards for typical safety functions in machinery and some of their characteristics have now been moved from section 5 to a new informative Annex M. A new subsection 5.2.3 requires designers to minimise any motivation to defeat safety functions. Practical feasibility during machine use must be considered at an early stage, when defining a safety function. Another new subsection, 5.2.4, specifies that, by default, remote access must be limited in such a way that no dangerous situations can arise through the unnoticed presence of persons within the hazard zone of the machinery. Fourth Edition of EN ISO 13849-1 (July 2023) 4 / 12 The next steps, which complete the specification phase, are the determination of the PL and the r review of the safety requirements specification (SRS). This review must be carried out before entering the SRP/CS desgn phase, so that any specification errors can be rectified at an early stage. The final subsection, 5.5, is about the decomposition of SRP/CS into subsystems. At this point, we can see that the standard in its fourth edition makes a clear distinction between SRP/CS and subsystems. SRP/CS describes the safety-related part of a control system that carries out an entire safety function – from the triggering event to the reaction required to either achieve or maintain a safe state. Along the hardware chain from the input (sensors) through the logic (processing) to the output (power control elements), the SRP/CS can be decomposed into subsystems, each carrying out a (safety) sub-function. The number of participating subsystems, however, may vary. As explained in the previous section, any subsystems that have previously been validated can be integrated, and subsystems can be composed of subsystem elements under