EN ISO 13849. The relevant design requirements for subsystems are dealt with in the next section of the standard. 6 Section 6: Design considerations and Annex K The new section 6 now provides not only a description of categories and combinations of subsystems, but all the properties and parameters that were previously mentioned to some extent in subsections 4.4 and 4.5 and which help to define the achieved PL. After a general introduction, the first focus is on the correlation between PL and SIL. Referring to subsystems developed under IEC 61508 and IEC 62061, the standard only deals with the integration of those intended for use under high demand or continuous mode of operation and dsigned according to Route 1 (see IEC 61508-2:2011, 7.4.42). H 6.1 Subsection 6.1.3: Categories When describing categories, a number of important details have changed or have been given a clearer emphasis: • Category assignment at the subsystem level (6.1.3.1) A neat distinction between SRP/CS and subsystems must involve the assignment of a category to each subsystem developed under EN ISO 13849. It follows that an SRP/CS may also include subsystems of different categories and subsystems with SIL classifications. • Proven Category 1 components (6.1.3.2.3) Whilst the content of Category 1 requirements has not changed much, the description for well-tried components has now been moved to a separate subsection 6.1.11, where direct reference is made to the well-tried components listed in EN ISO 13849-2 for various technologies and where informative reference is made to the concept of “proven in use”, as defined in IEC 61508. It is now part of the standard (and no longer a comment) that complex components are unsuitable as well- tried components. • Testing in Category 2 (6.1.3.2.4) In the future, the main feature of Category 2 will be fault detection in the functional channel instead of the checking of the safety function. This clarifies that what is required is not necessarily the checking of the entire sub-function of a Category 2 subsystem (which might be interpreted as 100% fault detection), but that effective fault detection is required in the functional channel – and indeed for each of its parts (input unit, logic and output unit), at least with “low” diagnostic coverage (DC), i.e. 60% fault detection. Two conditions were previously mentioned only in the context of the simplified procedure for estimating the quantifiable aspects of the PL. They now apply generally under Category 2: Fourth Edition of EN ISO 13849-1 (July 2023) 5 / 12 The test rate must be at least 100 times higher than the demand rate, or testing occurs immediately upon demand of the safety function and prevents the hazard. This does not affect the exceptional case in Appendix K where a test rate is described that is only 25 times higher. Also, the mean time to dangerous failure (MTTF ) of the test channel (including OTE, output of test D equipment) must be greater than half the MTTF of the entire functional channel. D • Fault accumulation in Category 4 (6.1.3.2.6) A new note has been added to clear up a possible misunderstanding when implementing Category 4. In a failure mode and effects analysis (FMEA), it is sometimes impossible to classify 100% of theoretically possible dangerous failures as detectable. This is why “only” a high DC of 99% is required for PFH calculation in Category 4. On the other hand, according to the definition of Category 4, the accumulation of (up to two) undetected dangerous failures must not lead to the loss of the safety function. If there were indeed an undetected dangerous failure with practical relevance, the second dangerous failure could then lead to the failure of a Category 4 structure. This is where the new note becomes relevant: Undetected failures with a very low probability (theoretically conceivable, but practically irrelevant) do not need to be factored into the fault accumulation – provided that this fault consideration is documented and verified. 6.2 Subsection 6.1.4: MTTF D The list of possible data sources for estimating an MTTF value has been updated to include a new D option: Reliable field data for identical component applications from similar applications can be used if there are no manufacturer’s details and if the methods in Annex C (including good engineering practice method) are not applicable. 6.3 Subsection 6.1.6: CCF The requirement to avoid common cause failures is now specified in a separate subsection 6.1.6, which refers to the familiar Annex F for guidance on practical implementation. 6.4 Subsection 6.1.7: Systematic failures A separate subsection 6.1.7 has now been added, to provide for the requirement of avoiding and controlling systematic failures. What is new is the express requirement for a functional safety plan that defines functional safety management in order to protect against systematic failures in specification, implementation or modification. The relevant details have been added to Annex G (see section 15 of this article). 6.5 Subsection 6.1.8: Simplified procedure, bar chart and Annex K The simplified procedure for estimating quantifiable aspects of a PL, including the bar chart (now Figure 12 in the standard) can now be found in subsection 6.1.9. There are only two major changes: The requirements on the test rate and the reliability of the test channel now apply generally to Category 2, as mentioned above. Secondly, the authors of the standard have removed the previous edition’s Table 6, which was the bar