restrictions realised by programming guidelines, compilers or development tools. Whereas the requirements on SRESW were previously only described rather briefly, the new edition of the standard now contains exemplary extended guidance for all measures, both basic and additional. Further detailed information can be found in IFA Report 1/2020 [7]. The boundary conditions for the option of using components with non-accessible embedded software have been updated: The diversity requirement for PL c and d can now be met not only through different types of technology, but also through different types of design. The authors have clarified that the associated hardware and existing SRASW must meet the requirements of the standard. The software measures, graded according to PL and available diversity, cannot always be directly and r unambiguously assigned in each instance. This is where part one of the new informative Annex N should be helpful: First, one of four use cases can be specified from within the application – use cases that are based on the PL (a/b, c, d or e) but which can be downgraded by one level, depending on where the software is used. Such downgrading is possible for software in the test channel of Category 2 or in diverse functional channels of Category 3 or 4. Based on the applicable case, it is then possible to identify the mandatory and recommended individual measures in two tables. Part two of the new Annex N demonstrates software validation through analysis and testing, using the example of an SRASW based on validated function blocks. The example of the SRESW implementation in the informative Appendix J has been adapted to the current V model of the software safety lifecycle. The previous subsections on the verification of the achieved performance level and on ergonomic aspects of the design have become sections 8 and 9 without any major changes. 8 Section 10: Validation The new section 10, Validation, has been taken over entirely from sections 4 to 12 of EN ISO 13849-2. Except for some restructuring, the content and the requirements have essentially remained unchanged. They follow familiar patterns in dealing with validation principles, including a validation plan, validation protocol and validation through analysis and testing. Validation primarily concerns the specification of safety requirements as well as safety functions, safety integrity (effectiveness of safety functions), including categories, hardware, software as well as requirements on the operating environment and user information. The overview of the validation process makes it clear that, irrespective of the category, at least a functional test of the safety functions is required in addition to the analysis. By using the validation requirements from the less familiar part 2 of the standard, the aim is to emphasise validation as an important measure against faulty specifications, faulty design and faulty Fourth Edition of EN ISO 13849-1 (July 2023) 8 / 12 implementation, and to reinforce their practical implementation. In the long term, after a revision of part 2 of the standard – a revision that will be limited to the tables and the validation examples in the Annexes – there are plans to migrate the entire part 2 into part 1 of the standard. Until then, the validation requirements in the two parts of the standard will continue to be compatible, so that there will be no inconsistencies. 9 Section 11: Maintainability of SRP/CS The previous section on maintenance has been extended to include the aspect of maintainability, so that accessibility, ease of use, visibility, simplification and automatically generated maintenance advice are now also included. 10 Sections 12 and 13: Technical documentation and information for use Minor amendments have been made to the previous requirements on the (manufacturer’s in-house) technical documentation, and the requirements on the information for use have been divided into two subsections: the first subsection is for SRP/CS integrators, providing a detailed list of technical parameters, and the second one is for machine users, providing details on operation, displays, cleaning, maintenance, etc. 11 Annex A: Determination of PL r The informative Annex A on the determination of the PL contains two significant changes. r The parameters “possibility of avoiding or limiting harm” (Parameter P) and “probability of occurrence of a hazard event” are no longer merged. The “probability of occurrence of a hazard event” is now merely mentioned in passing and, to be on the safe side, is generally estimated as being high (100%). In cases where a low estimate is possible, the PL that has been determined via the risk graph can be r downgraded by one level. What is new is that this decision must be justified and documented. The fourth edition of the standard no longer specifies how to determine the “probability of occurrence of a hazard event”, so that only edition 3 of the standard can be used for information purposes here, as EN ISO 12100 does not provide much information on this risk element, either. On the other hand, more detailed assistance is offered for the determination of parameter P, based on five factors. Three of these factors are each alone sufficient to justify the choice of P2 (avoiding or limitating of harm scarcely possible) if they are unfavourable: the speed with which the hazardous situation arises, the possibility of avoiding the hazard in terms of physical space, and the perceptibility of the hazard. The other two factors only justify the choice of P2 in combination with other unfavourable factors: first, whether the machine is used by skilled persons and, second, the complexity of its operation. 12 Annexes C and D: MTTF values D If the manufacturer of a component with mechanical wear, e.g. a pneumatic or electromechanical component, specifies only a B value instead of a B value (number of cycles until 10% of the 10 10D components have dangerously failed), then the rate of dangerous failures RDF – where known – can be used for the conversion according to the relationship B = B /RDF. Up to now, there has only 10D 10 been the indication that 50% dangerous failures should be