control module 3 Electrical supply plate 4 Pressure supply plate 2 2 x 3/2, 5/2, 5/3 directional valves for internal or external pilot control 1 AES bus coupler 7 Pressure regulator 9 Shut-off module 8 Exhaust module 6 Throttle module 10 Pressure sensor module c AV system Series AV03/AV05 with AES 1 AES bus coupler: Galvanic isolation 2 Excellent leakage values plus easy between the logic voltage (UL) and maintenance minimizes the risk of failure. actuator voltage (UA) in the bus coupler; Pilot air can be controlled internally or this achieves a safe separation of other externally: should a problem occur, the functions in the application. Consistent valves switch to a defined state. use of standardized and commercially available M12 connectors throughout the system. Emerson expertise – AV/AES| Machine safety 31 3 Electrical supply plate: supplies actuator voltage to the must be exhausted. Targeted system component exhaust de- valves. This enables independent voltage zones with any energizes the cylinder. The module is integrated into the valve number of valves. Safety functions thus remain separate system, making it resistant to actuator movements. from other functions. 9 The shut-off module serves to separate actuators from the 4 Pressure supply plate: enables mutually independent pneumatic supply, e.g. for maintenance purposes. pressure zones for customized pressure supply to different circuits and ensures adequate, rapid system exhaust. 10 Pressure sensor module: processes four pneumatic inputs Optional: Module for monitoring the switch-off voltage (pressure or vacuum) from a pneumatic control and converts threshold of the valves. When falling below the voltage the pneumatic pressure into digital information of the Zone 3 Zone 2 Zone 1 Supplied from threshold, which disables the valve, the module provides serial transmission system. The module provides diagnostic Port 4 Sandwich P P P a diagnostic message via the fieldbus. This allows you to capabilities via LED and supply voltage monitoring. All to Zoned Pilot identify why the valves were switched off. necessary functions are integrated. Sandwich a b c d e Safe Zone #3 (16) Safe Zone #2 (16) Safe Zone #1 (16) Pilot Valve Non-Save (Standard use) 5 The electrical valve control module for direct actuation The electrical/pneumatic shut-off PD: using this shut-off module a Valve Coil Capability b Valve Coil Capability c Valve Coil Capability d Section e Zone (32) Coil Capability of 2 valves in AV03 and AV05 valve systems. It can be with position detection prevents compressed air from entering integrated at the right end of D-Sub or fieldbus valve the operating line – even in the event of accidental actuation of systems. The two following valve positions are controlled the upstream 5/3 WV CC 1V1. In home position, the valve shuts via the M12 connection. off all channels. In conjunction with an upstream 5/3 WV CC in safety-relevant control chains, for example, you can achieve two 6 Throttle module: With the two-channel pressure module, channels to safeguard against accident restart or for safe stops. the flow in both operating lines can be limited, reducing the cylinder traversing speed. Optionally, a cover plate is The 3/2 directional valve with negative overlap: for the “safe available to safeguard against manipulation. exhaust” safety function, the valve design principle has to be taken into consideration. The 2x 3/2 NCNC directional valve 7 Pressure regulator: Reduced working pressure in the with non-detenting manual override presents an alternative to operating lines for force limitation in cylinders. the poppet valve. This valve does not have zero overlap in the switching transition, also referred to as negative overlap. Due to 8 Exhaust module: in case of emergency stop, cylinder its design, it cannot get caught in a position where all channels chambers may remain under pressure. To perform are closed. maintenance, release trapped personnel, or achieve correct workpiece positioning, the cylinder chambers Your advantages: • Optimized compressed air balance thanks to a small, • Long service life of over 150 million cycles. lightweight construction • Long valve system service life without requiring • Universal system for a variety of applications in safety- maintenance related controls • High flexibility thanks to easy application retrofitting The result: one solution for all your requirements. • Simplified design process with Engineering Tools 32 Machine safety | Emerson expertise – AV/AES 503 Zone Safety Valve system The 503 Zone Safety valve system enables functional safety with up to three independent safety zones on one valve system. Zone 3 Zone 2 Zone 1 Supplied from Port 4 Sandwich P P P to Zoned Pilot Sandwich a b c d e Safe Zone #3 (16) Safe Zone #2 (16) Safe Zone #1 (16) Pilot Valve Non-Save (Standard use) a Valve Coil Capability b Valve Coil Capability c Valve Coil Capability d Section e Zone (32) Coil Capability Redundant channels are possible, with external supply of the electrical supply plates via safety relays or a safety PLC. The electrical supply plate of the pilot valves is separated from the electronics voltage and the valve voltage of the G3 system. The mounted valves can also be used to control pilot-operated non-return valves, locking units, and pneumatically operated spring-return valves. 503 Zone Safety The 503 Zone Safety valve system enables several safety zones on one Series 503 valve system. This approach helps design engineers to meet the safety requirements of Machinery Directive 2006/42/EC and ISO 13849-1. At the same time, the pneumatic complexity in the individual pneumatic safety circuits is reduced. With this functionality, it is simple and cost-effective for original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and end users to configure up to three safety zones in a production machine with a single Series 503 valve system. Together with other safety-related parts of the control system (SRP/ CS), the 503 Zone Safety valve system enables safety functions such as safe de-energization, safe reversing, safe stopping and closing, and prevention of unexpected start-up. One valve system – up to three safety zones As with standard 503 valve systems, vertically stacked throttle modules, pressure regulators and other manifolds are available to provide maximum flexibility. • Combines several safety