be replaced by other conventional Discrete level which specifies the components capability of safety-related parts of control systems to perform a safety Safety function For normal machine operation, a safety function under foreseeable conditions] function is an additional function that maintains or recovers safe operation in PL Required performance level r the event of malfunctions or critical [ISO 13849-1: Applied performance level operating conditions. A failure or an necessary to achieve the required risk error in this function would increase the reduction for each safety function] safety risk of the machine. Redundancy Presence of multiple functionally identical or comparable technical SIL Safety integrity level resources (mainly for safety reasons) SRP/CS Safety-related part of a control system that are not needed for trouble-free Part of a control system that responds normal operation to safety-related input signals and Residual risk Risk that remains after a preventive generates safety-related output signals measure is executed T Wear-related indicator: Mean time until 10D Risk Combined probability 10% of the components fail dangerously. Unit: year Risk estimation Determines likely extent of damage TE Test equipment and probability of its occurrence Risk analysis Combines the limits of a machine, Technical Protection measures involving identified hazards, and estimates risks safeguards protection devices to protect people Risk assessment Overall process comprising risk analysis against hazards that cannot be and risk evaluation appropriately eliminated through Risk evaluation Assessment of whether risk reduction inherently safe design, or to protect objectives have been met based on risk against risks that cannot be sufficiently analysis mitigated. S, S1, S2 Severity of injury TM Mission time Unit: year Preventive Action to eliminate a hazard or to reduce Guard Protective physical barrier designed measure a risk as part of the machine 60 Machine safety | Glossary Benefit from our experience For further information visit us at www.Emerson.com/contactus Around-the-clock information The Emerson Internet portal is available day or night. In the online catalog, you can view our entire product assortment along with comprehensive technical details. To use our refined Engineering Tools, visit: www.engineering-tools.com Online catalog Calculation programs The fastest point of entry is via our online Here you can specify the dimensions or load- catalog. Here you can start your search directly bearing capacity of your components with a by entering a part number or keyword. wide variety of calculation options. As a special feature, you can also use the air consumption CAD calculator. Your desired object can be issued here directly Circuit diagram software as a CAD file in various formats, as a PDF file, or for further configuration in your software. With the Scheme Editor, you can quickly and easily create circuit diagrams that are based Configurators on your component layout and linked to your The configurator can be reached by clicking catalog selection. the selected product. After selecting your eShop product, you can begin to adapt it to your own specifications. The eShop is our online shop that answers your price requests and monitors the whole order process up to delivery. Product liability warning: The responsibility for a safe machine design remains with the customer as the machine manufacturer. In this capacity, the customer must make the final call. Emerson does not assume any liability for the machine! This disclaimer does not apply in cases of intentional or grossly negligent conduct, or if an error has been fraudulently concealed. Contact| Machine safety 61 Control category properties Category B Category 1 Category 2 Category 3 Category 4 I L O I1 L1 O1 I1 L1 O1 Structure I L O I L O TE O I2 L2 O2 I2 L2 O2 TE I Input O Test equipment output TE L Logic Safety function failure O Output Monitoring TE Test equipment Connection serutaeF Redundancy No No No Yes Yes (2 chanels) Failure resistance / 0 0 0 1 1 failure cumulation - - stnemeriuqeR Safety principles Basic Basic & Well tried Basic & Well tried Basic & Well tried Basic & Well tried Well-tried components - Yes - - - Component – MTTF Low-medium High Low-high Low-high High D (service life) Monitoring (DC) None None Low-medium Low-medium High Observation CCF No No Yes Yes Yes PL (possible) a–b b–c a–d a–e e Assessment MTTF Assessment DC range D Low 3 years ≤ MTTF < 10 years None DC < 60 % D Medium 10 years ≤ MTTF < 30 years Low 60 % ≤ DC < 90 % D High 30 years ≤ MTTF < 100 years Medium 90 % ≤ DC < 99 % D (resp. < 2.500 years in Cat. 4) High 99 % ≤ DC c Source: ISO 13849 c Four DC classes in the simplified approach from ISO 13849-1 Safety first Efficient machine safety from Emerson: Rely on our comprehensive expertise and safety solutions for fluid control and pneumatics. Your local contact: Emerson.com/contactus Visit us: Emerson.com Facebook.com/EmersonAutomationSolutions Linkedin.com/showcase/emr-discreteautomation X.com/EMR_Automation The Emerson logo is a trademark and service mark of Emerson Electric Co. Brand logotype are registered trademarks of one of the Emerson family of companies. All other marks are the property of their respective owners. © 2024 Emerson Electric Co. All rights reserved. BR000049ENUS-02_04-24 | Machine safety 63 Malfunction Commissioning, adjustment Decommissioning, disassembly Teach-in, programming Disposal c Limits in all lifecycle phases (risk analysis) 8 Machine safety | Basic conditions Risk analysis: Identifying hazards Warning: Contact between protected property and hazard! Standard EN ISO 12100-1 specifies all relevant potential hazards in production that may result in injury to people or animals, or damage to property. Hazards are divided into different categories, as shown in the diagram below. Our focus is especially geared toward safe machine shut-down, safe valve exhaust, and safe pressure release in pneumatic systems and components – precisely because these mechanical hazards can result in personal injury. Radiation hazard: Radiation: frequency, radiation: light, X-ray and gamma rays … Mechanical hazards: Crushing, clipping, cutting or shearing, catching or wrapping, pulling in or trapping, impact, Substances, materials: puncture, abrasion, fluids under pressure Contact or inhalation of dangerous substances, fire, explosion, virus,