What if the performance level is not Validation – calculating PFH achieved? D PFH – probability of dangerous failure per • Use components with a longer service life D hour – is a value for the average probability of (MTTF , B ) D 10 a dangerous failure in one hour (1/h) and the • Achieve a higher category (e.g. category 3 associated performance level. instead of category 1) by adding redundant components Required inputs • Invest greater resources in monitoring the • Required inputs control to boost the DC value • Selected architecture expressed as category • Separate the safety function from a normal • Average diagnostic coverage DC function to increase the service life (MTTF ) avg D • Mean time to dangerous failure MTTF for a of components with B values through a low D 10 channel number of cycles • Implement safety functions using AVENTICS circuit examples Appendix Technology List of basic List of basic List of proven Fault lists and safety principles safety principles components fault exclusions Table(s) A Mechanical A.1 A.2 A.3 A.4, A5 B Pneumatic B.1 B.2 - B.3 to B.18 C Hydraulic C.1 C.2 - C.3 to C.12 D Electric D.1 D.2 D.3 C.4 to C.21 (contains electronics) c Further measures to assess robustness 22 Machine safety | Basic conditions Pneumatic solutions to improve safety Comprehensive machine safety expertise all under one roof. Thanks to the safety concepts of Emerson, your employees are best protected at work. At production plants, safety must come first despite machinery growing in complexity. Benefit from our pneumatic valve technologies and innovative products for your machine safety now. Whether traditional solutions with drain valves, or innovative safety systems in line with the latest standards: The following pages give you an overview of current and efficient products, as well as their technical properties, including examples of safety functions. Wide range of products – future-proof concepts With AVENTICS solutions, you benefit from proven expertise based on many years of experience in equipping machines and systems in line with standards. All products include complete documentation and reliability ratings. In addition, online tools, such as free access to IFA-rated circuit examples, help ensure safe designs. Emerson also has comprehensive experience in the area of fluid control, offering a broad spectrum of ASCO products suitable for a wide range of industries and applications. As product brands of Emerson, both providers stand for safe products in certified quality. Some examples include valve systems with practical high-end characteristics, such as digital displays, a compact design, and all relevant connection options. Safety starts in the design and selection of components Take advantage of the wide range of safety concepts from Emerson with AVENTICS and ASCO products. Each and every one of our pneumatics and fluid control solutions promotes machine safety and reduces risks for your employees. Pneumatics range| Machine safety 23 24 Machine safety | Pneumatics range Emerson expertise To support machine and systems manufacturers, we not only provide this guide, but also offer individualized consulting based on our long-term experience. On the next pages, you will find circuit examples and parts from our product portfolio. For additional examples, please visit www.emerson. com/en-us/expertise/automation/improving-safety-security/machine-safety Scope of ISO 13849 for pneumatic controls For fluid power systems, the valve area is an especially critical control component in terms of safety. More specifically: valves that control potentially hazardous movements or system states. Required safety functions can usually be achieved by other linked controls with the appropriate valve versions or even by additional mechanical solutions such as holding devices or brakes. Drive elements as well as energy conversion and transfer components in fluid power systems are usually beyond the scope of the standard. In pneumatic systems, components must be protected against hazards associated with energy changes. Moreover, the air preparation unit used to process compressed air must be safely connected to the valve area. To reliably control possible energy changes, an exhaust valve is often used in conjunction with a pressure switch. 1A Drive elements Components that perform Relevant section safety-related function, e.g. valves for safety-related control component Components that guard against energy fluctuations OZ Potentially OZ11 OV11 OZ10 relevant for compliance with basic and well-tried OV10 “Air preparation unit” e Scope of ISO 13849 in pneumatic systems Emerson expertise| Machine safety 25 Example: basic safety principles, fluid power system controls in the Air preparation unit 0Z usually comprises: categories B and 1 do not differ substantially in terms of their • Manual shutoff valve 0V10 control structures, but instead in the higher reliability of relevant • Filter with water separator 0Z10 and filter monitoring safety-related valves. • Pressure regulator 0V11 with adequate relieving exhaust • Pressure indicator 0Z11 for system parameter monitoring On the following pages you will find two detailed examples. Further examples can be found at www.emerson.com/ The structures of most fluid power system controls are designed en-us/expertise/automation/improving-safety-security/ to comply with the categories 1, 3, or 4. Because category B machine-safety already requires compliance with the relevant standards and 26 Machine safety | Emerson expertise Circuit example: “Safe exhaust” (Cat. 3), potential PL a-e The basic valve position depressurizes the system. Redundant safe exhaust is guaranteed via two exhaust pathways: • Via non-return valves 2V2 and 2V3 and the directional valve 2V1. The minimum opening pressure of the non-return valves must be taken into account. • Via directional valve 1V1 Cylinder extension and retraction is only possible with the combined actuation of 1V1 and 2V1. The safety-related switching position is achieved by removing the electrical control signal. Failure of one of the valves does not jeopardize the safety function. 1S1 1S2 1A1 2V3 12 2 1 2V2 2S1 12 2 1 P 1V1 4 2 2V1 4 2 5 1 3 5 1 3 e Positive IFA rating achieved Basic valve position depressurizes the system – two exhaust pathways: • Via non-return valves 2V2 and 2V3 and directional valve 2V1 (observe minimum opening pressure of the non-return valves) • Via directional valve 1V1 • Valve 2V1 must