redundant control architectures (dual-channel) for use in categories 3 4 2 and 4 with a maximum performance level e. 14 5 1 3 e Redundant solution with internal pilot: 3 This solution is also available with external pilot. The system can be connected directly to working connection 2. Alternatively, an upstream startup valve can be connected to primary line 1. This startup valve is then actuated by an external 4 2 pneumatic connection. 14 5 1 3 e Dual valve with integrated non-return valve: Alternatively, the ISO 1 version provides you with a variant with an integrated non-return valve, in order to bridge a connected startup valve on connection 4 in the secondary line in case of exhaust. This solution is available with external or X 1 internal pilot. Additional technical data is available in our online catalog. 42 Machine safety | Emerson expertise – AVENTICS-IS12 Series LU6: Static locking or dynamic braking The lock element can be used as a holding unit (blocking of a movement) or as a brake unit (emergency stop/emergency off). LU6 locking unit application: mechanical holding function for piston rods of pneumatic cylinders according to ISO 15552 or comparable round bars; suitable for use in safety-related controls. Proper use has been tested and certified by the manufacturer. Further exemplary safety features: • Preventing a dangerous movement (Cat. 1 to max. PL c, “proven component”) • Secure hold in upper end position through clamping and one-sided pressurization (up to max. PL e) • Stopping a dangerous movement (emergency stop/ emergency off, up to max. PL e) The locking unit can be used in controls with a maximum performance level c or Cat. 1 according to ISO 13849-1 (“proven component”), e.g. to prevent a dangerous movement. When used in controls with a higher performance level, additional control measures according to ISO 13849-1 are necessary. On the next page you will find a circuit example that c Locking unit, Series LU6, max. holding force 12,000 NN allows different cylinder mounting positions. For the safety function “preventing a dangerous movement” the example control – provided that the cylinder locking unit is not used as a dynamic brake – achieves a maximum performance level e (PL e), according to ISO 13849-1. Other components must be provided to meet the requirements for diagnostics and redundancy, as well as prevent common cause failure. c Series Sensor IN1 Emerson expertise – AVENTICS-LU6| Machine safety 43 1A 2 1 Safety-related properties of the holding device • Permitted for use in category 3 controls up to max. performance level d in accordance with EN ISO 13849-1, for the safety function “preventing a dangerous movement” • For use in controls with a max. performance level c, category 1, as a “well-tried component” • High B dynamic braking values: 2 million cycles 10D • High B static holding values: 5 million cycles 10D • Components comply with basic and well-tried safety principles • Optional function query directly at LU6 by sensors, which directly monitor the pneumatic control signal, helping to increase diagnostic coverage to 99% 44 Machine safety | G 1V4 1S2 2S2 1V7 2 1 2A 1V3 4 x 2 1S1 1V6 4 x 2 1S3 2V1 2 5 1 3 5 1 3 x 1V1 x 1 3 12 1 2 2 1 12 * 1V2 1V5 2V1 P *From 4 bar: release 2V1 c Circuit diagram for holding or braking, any cylinder mounting direction, valve normally closed in starting position Series LU6 Your advantages: • Large stroke range, depending on the cylinder series (1 to 2,850 mm) • Robust, clever design for excellent holding and braking functions • High holding force up to 12,000 N • Wide range of accessories for numerous combinations and application options • Hexagonal wrench flats for easier mounting in limited installation spaces Emerson expertise – AVENTICS-LU6 Analog distance measuring sensors: Safe and reliable For the safety of processes, it is reassuring to know that piston position detection is highly accurate and repeatable: Feedback on the piston position allows many safety-related controls to review the cylinder position and, consequently, the switching position of the directional valve. Here, analog distance measuring sensors not only provide diagnostics, but also measure the position of the pneumatic cylinder piston with great accuracy and ease. Thanks to simple mounting in the slot from above, flexible settings within the maximum distance measurement range and an extremely high proximity switching rate, the SM6 sensor is ideal for demanding automation solutions. Sensor Series SM6 Your advantages: *From 4 bar: release 2V1 • Suitable for 6 mm T-slot • Zero point and measurement range settings via teach-in button • Choice of any mounting position and cable exit • Mounting from above in the slot (“drop-in”) • High accuracy and linearity • Excellent repeatability and reliability through proven Hall sensors • Eight different sizes offered in the series to meet all required distance measurement ranges, from 32 to 256 mm Connection variants: Any mounting position Mounting from above Maximum measurement range Emerson expertise – AVENTICS sensors| Machine safety 45 The SM6-AL analog distance measuring sensor constantly records piston movement over the entire stroke. It enables high-resolution distance measurement and exact positioning in measurement ranges from 107 to 1,007 millimeters. The distance measuring sensor is thus perfectly suited for the continuous recording of piston movements in pneumatic cylinders and is an ideal solution for cylinders with medium and long strokes. The SM6-AL is suitable for all standard cylinders. Its universal design offers various assembly options. The robust, chemical-resistant aluminum housing, as well as a cable sleeve support, guarantee a long sensor service life and reduce maintenance costs. Sensor Series SM6-AL Your advantages: • Zero point and measurement range settings via teach-in button • Choice of any mounting position and cable exit • High accuracy and linearity • Excellent repeatability and reliability through proven Hall sensors • Flexible selection of sizes in the series to meet all required distance measurement ranges, from 107 to 1,007 mm Free definition of a measurement range