Basic conditions Identification of the MTTF using the value B – example D 10 for lifecycle duration The value B specifies the number of cycles until 10% 10 of components tested in endurance trials (acc. to DIN EN ISO 19973) have exceeded the defined limits. B 10 describes a statistical failure probability. It is an indicator for the reliability of a wearing part, evaluating the number of switching cycles for pneumatic valves, for example. In terms of machine safety, ISO 13849-1 only considers dangerous machine failures. These are described by B . 10D Assuming that half of all failures are dangerous, we would apply the formula B = 2 x B . B is required for all 10D 10 10D safety-related components in a control that are susceptible to wear and for all components directly involved in a safety function. The value for B is used to calculate MTTF (see 10D D page 19). Emerson provides extensive proof of reliability for its products in order to calculate performance levels. This data can also be found in our SISTEMA libraries. c SISTEMA c Proof from Emerson Basic conditions| Machine safety 19 DC – Emerson can provide assistance! diagnostic coverage When a dangerous failure does occur, despite all application. The possibility of excluding a failure also depends on preventive measures, test equipment (diagnostics the application. or monitoring system) can detect it at an early This decision is therefore not usually made by the component stage to return the machine to a safe state. DC values are classified as follows: Depending on the required performance level, Designation DC range there are requirements for the DC or diagnostic coverage value, i.e. the coverage which must be None DC < 60 % provided by testing equipment. Low 60 % ≤ DC < 90 % The performance level therefore includes the Medium 90 % ≤ DC < 99 % High 99 % ≤ DC Diagnostic options for pneumatics c Four DC classes in the simplified approach from ISO 13849-1 Plausibility check manufacturer. Cylinder switch Annex E of ISO 13849-1 provides a simplified approach to Position measuring system estimating DC values. The engineer analyzes and evaluates the switching and the sequence of machine processes to estimate the percentage of errors that can be discovered by these measures. G G G Typical errors for safety-related parts of control systems are P P Pressure listed in ISO 13849-2. A typical error that could occur with sensor directional valves is failure to lock, for example. Diagnosis occurs SPS Flow meter indirectly via the sensor at the cylinder; here, a diagnostic coverage level of 90% can be assumed. For the locking unit, a typical error might be “Failing to clamp although control input is Switching position vented”. Diagnosis is performed in this case directly by the sensor sensing 4 2 at the locking unit. For this component, diagnostic coverage 14 Switching of 99% can be assumed. Average diagnostic coverage can be position 5 1 3 calculated using the formula: sensing DC DC DC 1 + 2 +…+ N MTTF MTTF MTTF D1 D2 DN monitoring quality of the control system. DC = avg 1 1 1 This is expressed as “diagnostic coverage”. This + +…+ MTTF MTTF MTTF value describes the achievable error detection rate. D1 D2 DN The DC value is defined as “... an expression for the effectiveness of diagnosis that can be described as the the ratio of the rate of detected dangerous After accounting for all typical errors, the DC in our example avg failures compared to the rate of all dangerous is 93%. This translates to a medium level of diagnostic coverage. failures.” Whether a specific failure qualifies as “dangerous” or “safe”, mainly depends on the definition of the safety function, or in other words on the intended 20 Machine safety | Basic conditions CCF – common cause failure CCF in our example Countermeasure for CCF Fluid technology Electronics Points Separation of signal paths Separation of tubing Air and creepage distance on activated circuits 15 Diversity E.g. different valves E.g. different processors 20 Protection against overvoltage, Setup acc. to EN ISO 4413 to EN Overvoltage protection 15 overpressure … ISO 4414 (pressure relief valve) (e.g. contactors, power pack) Use of well-tried components User 5 FMEA in development FMEA during initial system conception 5 Competence/training Qualification measure 5 Protection against contamination and EMC Fluid quality EMC test 25 Other effects (e.g. temperature, shock) Compliance with EN ISO 4413 and Observe ambient conditions as described 10 EN ISO 4414 and product spec in product spec Total CCF Total points(65 ≤ CCF ≤ 100): 95 CCF is a rating of measures to counteract “common cause failure,” or errors stemming from a common source, for example due to a high ambient temperature or intense electromagnetic interference. Measures to combat these types of failures are listed in Annex F of ISO 13849-1 with associated point scores. Only the entire number of points or none at all can be received for each of the measures listed. If a measure is partially met, zero points are assigned. Component manufacturers cannot provide any information related to CCF, because most measures are determined by the design of the machine. Basic conditions| Machine safety 21 Further measures to assess robustness • Safety-related properties of valves in Validation for our example safety systems, e.g. applying the principle Input data of energy isolation (quiescent current • Category: 3 principle, e.g. return spring). According to • MTTF for each channel: “high” D ISO 13849-1, in the event of a power outage, • DC : “medium” avg all system components, such as pneumatic ISO 13849-1: read out average probability of a valves, must independently assume and dangerous failure per hour (or calculate using maintain SISTEMA) a safe state under permissible operating • PL according to Table = e, PL = d r conditions (vibration, temperature, etc.). • Basic (cat. B) and well-tried safety principles • Result: PL ≥ PL r (cat. 1, 2, 3, or 4), see Table, page 16