bacteria Electrical hazards: Direct or indirect contact, high voltage, Ergonomics: electrostatic processes, thermal radiation Posture, exertion, anatomy, protective or particles Hazards acc. to equipment, lighting, stress, insufficient challenges, human behavior, actuators, Thermal hazards: EN ISO 12100 visual indicators, displays Burns, frostbite Combination Noise hazards: of hazards Loss of hearing, disequilibrium, disturbance in speech Vibration-related hazards: Tripping, slipping, Vibration: handheld tools, falling hazards full-body vibration Basic conditions| Machine safety 9 Risk analysis: Risk estimation – Performance level Risk reduction measures are derived based on the severity of possible injury, the frequency of the hazard, and the probability of its occurrence. Performance level is a technical target: it conveys the effort required to reduce risk at a machine. The target must be met as a minimum requirement. Every safety function has a required safety level. This is described by the required performance level, PLr for short, which is defined based on the following criteria from ISO 13849-1: S Severity of injury Risk estimation S1 Minor (normally temporary injury) • Manufacturers are free to apply their own process or that specified in a standard such as ISO 13849-1 or IEC 62061. S2 Serious (normally permanent injury, including death) F Frequency and/or duration of exposure Low risk F1 Rare to infrequent and/or brief F2 Frequent to continuous and/or long ISO 13849-1 P Possibility of avoiding hazard P1 Possible under certain conditions P1 P2 Scarcely possible PL a F1 P2 S1 P1 PL b F2 P2 P1 PL c F1 PL is distinguished based on letters from a (minimal P2 r S2 action required) to e (extensive action required). PL d P1 F2 P2 PL e High risk S Severity of injury F Frequency and/or length of exposure P Possibility of avoiding hazard or limiting harm 10 Machine safety | Basic conditions Risk assessment: Risk evaluation During a risk analysis, should you conclude that risk reduction is required, you will need to adopt corresponding preventive measures to achieve an adequate safety level. The best solution is an inherently safe design. Instructional measures such as user information harbor the risk of non-compliance and are thus only permissible as supplement once all technical options to improve safety have been exhausted. Technical measures present an additional route. Preventive technical measures If a machine’s safety depends on a properly functioning control, this can be termed “functional safety”. The “active” parts of the control are the main focus, i.e. components that detect a dangerous situation (signal recording, “I” = input), derive suitable reactions (evaluation, “L” = logic), and implement reliable measures (execution, “O” = output). The term “control” thus refers to the entire signal processing system. Note: “Safety-related parts of control systems” are not necessarily “safety components” as defined by the Machinery Directive. SRP/CS (Safety Related Parts of a Control System) can, however, be such safety components, e.g. two-hand controls or logic units with safety function. Actuators (cylinders), energy supply (e.g. pressure supply or air preparation units) and connections are not directly factored into dangerous failure rates. ISO 13849 is the generic standard for safety components in controls. Basic conditions| Machine safety 11 Focus on safety-related parts of control systems (SRP/CS acc. to ISO 13849-1) i i 1 SRP/CS ab SRP/CS bc SRP/CS 2 a b c “Active parts” I L O Sensor Logic Actuator Signal recording to Evaluation of hazard Execute reaction detect potential hazard (Opto-)electronics Electronics Pneumatics E.g. emergency OFF, two-hand circuit, safety Safety relay, wiring, safety PLC, E.g. limited or safe speed, reduce pressure door, safety mat, light barrier, laser scanner, safe pneumatic logic … and force, release energy, safe direction of enabling device, mode selector, camera travel, stop or block movement (see circuit systems… diagram examples from page 28) I Input 1 Start event, e.g. manual 2 Machine actuators L Logic activation of button, O Output opening a safeguard 12 Machine safety | Basic conditions Implementing a safety function – your go-to guide! Now we will look at the technical safety measures in greater detail. The question is to Procedure: what extent the safety function can reduce 1 Identify the hazardous situation (e.g. dangerous risk. After a prior risk estimation and the movements). definition of the required performance level (PL), the necessary degree of risk reduction is r determined. The following parameters determine whether the safety function actually mitigates risk to the required extent: • Control architecture (category) • Mean time to dangerous failure (MTTF ) D • Diagnostic coverage (DC) • Common cause failure (CCF) As a general rule: The performance level PL must at least correspond to the required PL. r Application example 2 Determine the trigger event. Safe stop function – halts dangerous movement and prevents unintended activation from the resting state 3 Define the safe state. Actuator stops after crossing light grille. 4 Specify the required reaction. Actuator is disabled. 5 Name the safety function. “Controlled stopping of the movement and e Risk analysis for application of the holding brake in the rest a forming component position” (see also IFA Report 2/2017). Basic conditions| Machine safety 13 Define PL: for machine part Severity of injury r • S2: Serious injury (normally permanent, including death) Low risk Frequency and/or duration of exposure ISO 13849-1 • F1: Rare to infrequent occurrence and/or brief exposure P1 Possibility of avoiding hazard PL a F1 • P2 Scarcely possible P2 S1 P1 PL b • PL = d r F2 P2 The example shows: functional failure can result in irreversible P1 PL c injury. The operator requires access to the machine less than once F1 P2 per shift. In the event of failure, he is fully exposed to the hazard. S2 PL d P1 F2 P2 PL e High risk 14 Machine safety | Basic conditions Selecting a Emerson can provide assistance! category The safety control architecture determines its error tolerance. It is also the framework for all other quantifiable aspects that ultimately go into calculating the performance level of safety-related elements of the control system. In industrial settings, the types of safety controls in machine engineering