effects analysis, Annex B); New York, 2015, www.quanterion.com ideally, however, the different failure modes of each • NPRD-2016, Nonelectronic Parts Reliability Data (RAC- safety-related component and their effect upon the block STD-6200), Quanterion Solutions Incorporated, Utica, must be analysed for this purpose. In consideration of New York, 2015, www.quanterion.com the effort, this approach is therefore generally worthwhile • British Handbook for Reliability Data for Components only for components with a high failure rate, i.e. a low used in Telecommunication Systems, British Telecom MTTF value. An alternative that can be performed quickly D (HRD5, last issue) and yields values that on average are not appreciably • Chinese Military Standard, GJB/z 299B & 299C poorer is the parts count method stated in EN ISO 13849, Part 1. Essentially, this method is a summation with two In addition to these collections of data, a number of soft- chief assumptions: ware tools are available on the market that provide auto- mated access to these or other databases. In the majority • Irrespective of the failure mode of a component and its of databases, electronic components are catalogued by effects upon the block, all failures are divided into two component type and other criteria (e.g. design, material, halves, safe and dangerous. This means that half of the 281 Annex D ⎛ ⎞ failure rate λ of a component contributes to the dange- ⎜ ⎟ rous failure rate λ of the associated block. If the propor- MTTF = 2⎜ MTTF +MTTF − 1 ⎟ (D.8) D D 3⎜ DC1 DC2 1 1 ⎟ tion of dangerous failures, λ , within the failure rate as a ⎜ + ⎟ whole has already been dete D rmined for the component, ⎝ MTTF DC1 MTTF DC2 ⎠ the same λ value is also allowed for the block. D The average MTTF per channel is thus produced from the D • The dangerous failure rate λ of the block is then formed MTTF values of the two redundant channels C1 and C2 by D D by summation of the λ contributions of all N safety- means of an averaging formula (this formula can be deri- D related components present in the block concerned (the ved mathematically by calculation of the MTTF value for a D contributions of identical components can simply be two-channel system without diagnostics but with known grouped): MTTF values of both channels – MTTF and MTTF [5]). D DC1 DC2 This completes the successive grouping of the MTTF λ D = 1 2 ∑ N λ i or λ D =∑ N λ Di (D.7) values of all components involved in the control sys D tem. i=1 i=1 The result is a value for the typical reliability of the com- ponents present in the control system, without conside- Since, as described above, the standard assumes con- ration of the redundancy, diagnostics or CCF (common stant failure rates, the λ failure rates can be converted cause failures, cf. Annex F). Given that the MTTF is already D D to MTTF values simply by formation of the reciprocal. capped to 100 years (2,500 years in the case of Category D Based upon this relationship, the MTTF value of a block 4) for each channel involved, assignment of the MTTF D D can easily be derived from the MTTF values of its com- values to one of the three classes, “low”, “medium” or D ponents. An example of application of the parts count “high”, is expedient only after symmetrization. The sym- method can be found in Chapter 6. metrized value is substituted in the numerical calculation of the PL as a parameter in addition to the Category, the D.5 Series arrangement of blocks in a average diagnostic coverage and the measures against channel and capping of the MTTF common cause failure. Depending upon the Category to D be attained, a minimum MTTF value of three years (for D If MTTF values or λ failure rates are available for each Category B, 2 and 3) or 30 years (for Category 1 and 4) is D D block, the MTTF for each channel can also be calculated also required. D in accordance with formula (D.7) by summation of the fail- ure rates of all blocks involved in a channel. It is assumed References in this case that the dangerous failure of any block in the chain of blocks constituting a channel is also to be treated [1] Birolini, A.: Qualität und Zuverlässigkeit technischer as a dangerous failure of the channel. Since under certain Systeme: Theorie, Praxis, Management. 3rd edition. circumstances however, downstream blocks are capable Springer, Berlin, Germany 1991 of detecting a dangerous failure of upstream blocks, this assumption constitutes an estimation erring on the safe [2] Bork, T.; Schaefer, M.: Aus Aktivität wird Vor- side. The capping rule of the standard takes effect in this sicht – Sinn und Unsinn der Quantifizierung. phase of determining the MTTF : with the exception of O + P Ölhydraulik und Pneumatik 51 (2007) No 3, D Category 4, each MTTF of a channel that mathematically pp. 78-85. www.dguv.de/medien/ifa/de/pub/grl/ D exceeds 100 years is routinely reduced to the maximum pdf/2007_016.pdf value of 100 years. In Category 4, the cap is 2,500 years. The purpose of this rule is to prevent the component reli- [3] Schuster, U.: Untersuchung des Alterungsprozesses abilities from being overstated in comparison with the von hydraulischen Ventilen. BGIA-Report 6/2004. other dimensions relevant to the PL, such as the architec- Published by: Hauptverband der gewerblichen ture, tests and common cause failures. Berufsgenossenschaften (HVBG), Sankt Augustin, Germany 2004. www.dguv.de/ifa, Webcode: d6362 D.6 Symmetrization of multiple channels [4] Weibull, W.: A statistical distribution function of wide As soon as a control system involves two channels (as applicability. J. Appl. Mech. 18 (1951), pp. 292-297 is generally the case for Categories 3 and 4) exhibiting different MTTF values, the question arises as to which of [5] IEC 60947-4-1: Low-voltage switchgear and control- D the MTTF values for each channel is to be used for deter- gear