of the software architecture and of the soft- of EN 574) ware modules and functions required for implementation of the software described above are summarized in a • Easy operation with low forces, but with design meas- further document, the technical specification for the ures for the prevention of unintended operation system and module design. For fault avoidance over the entire life cycle, suitable modularization and in this case • Robust design of the buttons, and suitable marking and also clear separation of the SRESW from the non-safety- colouring related software are particularly important. Where neces- 82 6 Design of safe control systems sary for the sake of clarity, the structure and flow of the modifications and appropriate development activities in software are shown by diagrams. Further requirements accordance with the V model should be defined within the are laid down concerning the programming language to organization of development itself. be used, in this case ANSI C with compiler-specific lan- guage extensions, and the development tools, e.g. compi- 6.5.10 SRP/CS in combination ler, version management, configuration management; all have been used successfully for many years. The program- Since the entire SRP/CS are structured end-to-end in a ming guidelines and methods for tools-based static ana- single Category and no subsystems are combined, corres- lysis for verification of coding are also specified. Planning ponding analysis in accordance with subclause 6.4 is not of module and integration testing is also set out in this required. It is obvious nevertheless that the various com- document. Following a further review, for example by the ponents and technologies must be compatible at their software development manager, the technical specifica- interfaces. Validation aspects regarding integration are tion is approved as a specification for coding. This review addressed in Chapter 7. also verifies whether the requirements of the software specification are met. 6.5.11 Further details Coding proper now begins, in compliance with the pro- Even in this detailed circuit example, numerous safety- gramming guidelines. Besides rules for better code related design aspects can only be touched upon. A legibility, the provisions of the programming guidelines reference is therefore provided here, as in the majority of specify such things as constraints upon the use of critical the circuit examples that follow, of useful reference con- language constructs. Observance of the programming taining further explanations and referring to additional guidelines during coding is assured in-process by the use requirements. of suitable tools. For semantic verification (of the content) of the finished code against the technical specification, More detailed references the programmer conducts a walk-through with colleagues in which execution of the program and the data flow of • EN 1010-3: Safety of machinery – Safety requirements critical signals are analysed at the same time. for the design and construction of printing and paper converting machines – Part 3: Cutting machines The usual module tests are performed to check the func- (2002) +A1 (2009) tions and interfaces, firstly for correctness and secondly for compliance with the module design. This is followed • IEC 61508-2: Functional safety of electrical/electronic/ by integration of the software and tests together with the programmable electronic safety-related systems – Part hardware of the microcontroller K1. K1 is then connected 2: Requirements for electrical/electronic/programma- to the ASIC channel K2 in order to test synchronization, ble electronic safety-related systems (2010) data exchange and fault detection of the two channels in combination. All tests are documented. • EN 574: Safety of machinery – Two-hand control devices – Functional aspects; principles for This integration test may reveal that the microcontroller's design (1996) +A1 (2008) (to be replaced by performance is not as good as previously assumed. EN ISO 13851:2019) Should this be the case, the software architecture, speci- fically scheduling of the tasks and the assignment of func- Further details, in particular concerning verification and tions to them, must be modified. This would not result validation, follow in Chapter 7 in the continuation of this in changes to the specification of the software safety example of a paper-cutting guillotine. requirements; the system and module design, however, would have to be adapted and subjected once again to review in order to assure compliance with the specifica- tion. This is one example of how technical changes which become necessary during development may result in the V model being repeated in order for the modifications to be implemented in accordance with the QA requirements. The code for such modifications would be written and both the module and integration tests would have to be repeated. For the event of the firmware having to be modified after the first production batch has already been shipped, suitable measures such as an impact analysis of the 83 84 7 Verification and validation i Changes with respect to the second edition • Reference is made in subclause 7.6 to the (BGIA Report 2/2008e): commissioning test. • The entire subclause has been comprehensively edi- • The aspect of verification of the user interface is ted. addressed by the new subclause 7.7, which follows the treatment of the subject in EN ISO 13849-2, 4.1. c). • Further details on the typical content of the verifica- tion and validation plan has been added to subclause • The example of verification and validation of the paper- 7.1.2. subclause 7.1.3 now contains further information cutting guillotine in subclause 7.8 has been updated. (references) on fault lists. The usual forms taken by the documentation required for V&V activities have also The report does not discuss the “Example of validation of been added in subclause 7.1.4. fault behaviour and diagnostic means” addressed infor- matively in the new Annex E of EN ISO 13849-2 [6]. • The information on verification of the specification and technical documentation have now been merged in a Despite the dated reference in EN ISO 13849-2 [6] to dedicated subclause in subclause 7.2. ISO 13849-1:2006, this subclause of the report is also based upon the more recent edition of EN ISO 13849- • Listing of required content has now been deleted for, 1:2015.