illustrates the application functions. of EN ISO 13849-1 on a paper-cutting guillotine. Only certain aspects will be considered in detail, and not the 5.5 Complementary protective measures entire process. The requirements for complementary protective measures Paper-cutting guillotines (see Figure 5.10) are used to cut are contained in EN ISO 12100 [3], subclause 6.3.5. With stacks of paper sheets or similar materials by means of a regard to the control technology issues addressed in this knife. The product to be cut is generally placed under the report, these complementary protective measures parti- knife by hand. Immediately before the cutting action is cularly include: performed, a clamping bar is lowered at high force onto 34 5 Safety functions and their contribution to risk reduction ESPE THC Figure 5.10: Paper cutting guillotine with two-hand control (THC) and electro-sensitive protective equipment (ESPE) the stack in order to hold it in place during cutting. The The following operating modes are implemented: knife and the clamping bar are driven hydraulically. 1. Pressing 5.7.1 Definition of the limits of the machine 2. Manual cutting (single cut) 3. Automatic sequence of cuts (automatic process Space limits following the first, manual cut) 4. Knife change Since paper-cutting guillotines are charged manually, sufficient space is required for the handling of product In the first three operating modes, movement of the clam- for cutting, onward transport and storage of the cut paper ping bar alone is possible, in order for the line of cut to stack, and disposal of paper waste, as well as sufficient be indicated. For this purpose, the operator operates a space for the operator to move. pedal, and is able at the same time to alter the position of the paper stack with his or her hands within the danger Time limits zone. Depending upon the application, the machine may be 5.7.2 Identification of the hazards used for a period of approximately 20 years. Component wear may lengthen the time required for a movement to The following mechanical hazards are significant for a stop. The resulting violation of the overrun must therefore paper-cutting guillotine: be detected and must result in the machine being stop- ped. • G1 – crushing by the clamping bar • G2 – cutting by the knife during the cutting process Use limits • G3 – cutting by the knife in the rest position The intended use of the machine is that of cutting stacked Risk estimation sheets of paper or similar materials. The machine is charged manually by a single person. Depending upon The dynamic press force of the clamping bar (hazard G1) the site of installation and the width of the machine, how- is sufficiently great to cause not only reversible crushing ever, the presence of other persons in the vicinity cannot injuries, but also broken bones. For hazard G2, amputa- be excluded. tion of limbs must be assumed. During manual positio- ning of the paper stack, hazard G3 may lead to injury to the hands or forearms on the stationary knife. These inju- ries are however generally reversible. 35 5 Safety functions and their contribution to risk reduction The operators‘ exposure to hazard is very high, since they 7. The mechanical components for guiding the knife and regularly (cyclically) intervene manually in the danger the clamping bar are linked such that in its top rest zone in the course of routine work. position, the knife is shrouded by the clamping bar. The drop speeds of the clamping bar and knife (hazards 5.7.3 Required safety functions G1 and G2) are very high, with the result that the operator has virtually no means of avoiding the hazard. When the In consideration of all operating modes and all manual knife is stationary (hazard G3), the operator is able to interventions, the following safety functions are required: avoid or limit harm. • SF1 – STO (safe torque off), for avoidance of unexpected The probability of a hazardous event occurring as a result start-up of technical failure is not known. The incidence and seve- rity on comparable machines is however low; the safe- • SF2 – Controlled location of the operator‘s hands out- guards implemented here are therefore evidently ade- side the danger zone during a hazardous movement quate. Should the risk analysis for a safety function yield a higher PL than that actually implemented on the compa- • SF3 – Detection of intervention by further persons in the r rable machines, the PL can in principle be reduced by one danger zone by means of ESPE (electro-sensitive pro- r level. However, since the safety functions on comparable tective equipment), e.g. a light curtain, and immediate paper-cutting guillotines are achieved with the highest PL, interruption of the cutting operation a reduction of the PL will not be possible in this case (see r subclause 5.7.4). • SF4 – Automatic stopping of all movements following each individual cut or following completion of the auto- Risk evaluation matic cutting sequence In consideration of all operating conditions and all possi- • SF5 – Reduction of the dynamic press force for the clam- bilities for operator intervention, a risk reduction is found ping bar during the “indicate cut” function to be required. • SF6 – Automatic return of the clamping bar and knife to Inherently safe design their initial positions following interruption of a cutting operation It is not possible for the dynamic press force of the clam- ping bar and the energy of the knife to be reduced, as this Note: The principle of overlapping hazards could be would impair the functionality of the machine. An arrange- applied to the machine parts of knife and clamping bar ment and design of the machine that would prevent the (see subclause 5.3.2). In this case, SF1, SF3, SF4 and SF6 operator from reaching into the danger zone is also not would be divided up such that dedicated safety functions possible, since this is precisely where the operator must would be defined separately for the knife and the clam- line up the