example is structured as follows: (BGIA Report 2/2008e): • Safety function • Example Nos 8, 26 and 36 deleted • Functional description • New example No 38 on hydraulic valve drive inserted • Design features • Substantially modified examples: Nos 17, 19 and 24 • Remarks • Calculation of the probability of failure • More detailed references This report began by addressing the design of safe con- trol systems in general terms. Subclauses 5.7, 6.5 and 7.6 Under “safety function”, the name of the safety function then illustrated, with reference to the example of a paper- is stated together with the events that trigger it and the cutting guillotine, how the methods for the design of safe required safety responses. control systems can be implemented. The methods for determining the PL are described step by step here and The “functional description” describes the essential in EN ISO 13849-1; some of these steps however, such as safety-related functions, based upon a conceptual sche- deriving the safety-related block diagram from the circuit matic diagram. The behaviour in the event of a fault is diagram, require some practice. SISTEMA Cookbook 1 [33] explained, and measures for fault detection are stated. provides guidance on deriving the safety-related block diagram and the SISTEMA file from the circuit diagram. The particular characteristics in the design of the example However, owing to the variety of possible safety functions in question, such as the application of well-tried safety and their implementation, the individual steps do not principles and the use of well-tried components, are listed lend themselves to generic description. For this reason, under the “design features”. this chapter will now present the evaluation of numerous circuit examples that implement the safety functions The circuit diagrams are conceptual schematic diagrams in various Categories and Performance Levels and by that are limited solely to presentation of the safety means of different technologies. In the circuit examples, function(s) with the relevant components required for this the concept of a control system generally covers only the particular purpose. In the interests of clarity, certain addi- safety-related parts of control systems. The examples are tional circuitry that is normally required has been omit- limited to essential aspects, and therefore serve primarily ted, for example that for the assurance of electric shock to illustrate the methodology. Importance was attached protection, for control of overvoltage/undervoltage and in their selection to a wide spectrum of technologies and overpressure or low pressure, for the detection of insula- possible applications. Readers familiar with the 1997 tion faults, short-circuits and earth faults for example on report [9] on the Categories for safety-related control sys- lines routed externally, or for assurance of the required tems to EN 954-1 will recognize some of the examples, to resistance to electromagnetic disturbance. Circuit details which for example calculation of the probability of failure that are not essential for determining the safety-related has been added. Compared to the BGIA Report 2/2008e block diagram have thus been deliberately omitted. Such [57], certain examples that are no longer up to date have details include protective circuitry in the electrical sys- been deleted; one new example has however also been tem, such as fuses and diodes, for example in the form of added. The examples are an interpretation of the Catego- free-wheeling diodes. The diagrams also omit decoupling ries, and have been compiled by the authors based upon diodes in circuits in which sensor signals, for example, many years of experience with safety-related machine are read in redundantly into multiple logic units. This control systems and work on national and European stan- arrangement is intended to prevent an input becoming an dards committees. The examples serve to provide desig- output on redundant systems in the event of a fault, and ners with effective guidance for their own developments. thus influencing the second channel. These components Since the examples were created by different authors, are all essential in order for a control system to be imple- some variation inevitably exists, for example in their mented in accordance with a Category and a Performance presentation of details or in the reasoning behind certain Level. In accordance with the fault lists in EN ISO 13849-2, numerical data. All calculations for the circuit examples issues such as the influence of conductor short circuits were performed with the aid of Version 2.0 of the SISTEMA must of course also be considered in relation to the safety software application (see Annex H), the version available function concerned and the conditions of use. All compo- at the time of production of this report. Further circuit nents used must therefore be selected with consideration examples, including SISTEMA files, are also described in for their suitability according to their specification. Over- IFA Report 4/2018e, “Safe drive controls with frequency dimensioning is one of the well-tried safety principles. inverters” [22]. 99 8 Circuit examples for SRP/CS Further examples are listed in the technology-specific appro priate attention must be paid to this aspect, since remarks on fluid power technology. mis judgements or inadequate implementation of these meas ures could lead to a deterioration in the fault tole- Design features are stated only where they are relevant to rance or probability of failure. As an aid to understanding the safety functions described. This is generally a “safety- of the circuit examples and for their practical implementa- related stop function, initiated by a safeguard”. Other tion, the reader‘s attention is therefore drawn to Chapter 7 safety functions, such as the “prevention of unexpected and Annex C, in which, for example, the basic and well- start-up” or a “manual reset function” and “start/restart tried safety principles are described in detail. function” are not considered in all examples. If manually operated equipment (pushbuttons) is used for the imple- Finally, reference is made to “more detailed references”, mentation of such safety functions, it must be ensured where available. that where the safety function is implemented in conjunc- tion with electronics, in particular, it must be initiated by For each form of technology,