a “safety-related part of the versions and transmission in fluid power systems gene- control system”. The fluid power circuits listed below rally lie outside the scope of the standard. constitute example arrangements only. As a rule, the required safety functions can also be implemented by On pneumatic systems (see Figure 8.2, Page 102), the means of alternative control logic employing appropriate components for the prevention of hazards associated valve types, or for that matter in some cases by additional with energy conversion and the maintenance unit for mechanical solutions such as hold devices or brakes. compressed air conditioning must be considered from a safety perspective in conjunction with the valve area. In On hydraulic systems (see Figure 8.1), measures for pres- order for the possible energy conversions to be controlled sure limitation in the system (1V2) and for filtration of the with consideration for safety aspects, an exhaust valve is hydraulic fluid (1Z2) must also be considered in this con- frequently used in conjunction with a pressure switch. In text. The components 1Z1, 1S1 and 1S2 shown in Figure 8.1 the circuit examples in this chapter, these components are present in the majority of hydraulic systems and are are marked 0V1 (exhaust valve) and 0S1 (pressure switch). of great importance, particularly for the condition of the The maintenance unit 0Z (see Figure 8.2) generally con- hydraulic fluid and consequently for the valve functions. sists of a manual shut-off valve 0V10, a filter with water The reservoir breather filter 1Z1 arranged on the fluid separator 0Z10 with monitoring of the contamination of reservoir prevents the ingress of external dirt. The fluid the filter, and a pressure control valve 0V11 (with ade- level indicator 1S2 ensures that the fluid level remains quately dimensioned secondary venting). The pressure within the specified limits. The temperature indicator 1S1 indicator 0Z11 satisfies the requirement for monitoring of constitutes suitable measures for limitation of the opera- the system parameters. 1A Drive elements Scope of the Components to perform safety-related part of the safety function, the control system e.g. valves 1Z2 1V2 Possibly relevant Power transformer to observance of the Power transmission 1V1 basic and well-tried safety principles 1Z1 M 1S1 1S2 1M 3 1P Figure 8.1: Scope of EN ISO 13849 for hydraulic systems 101 8 Circuit examples for SRP/CS 1A Drive elements Components to perform Scope of the the safety function, safety-related part of e.g. valves the control system Components to prevent hazards in the event of power fluctuations Possibly relevant 0Z to observance of the 0Z11 0V11 0Z10 basic and well-tried safety principles 0V10 Figure 8.2: “Maintenance unit” Scope of EN ISO 13849 for pneumatic systems Besides the safety-related part of the control system, safety function may however also be a defined pressure the fluid power circuits presented as examples in this level or a pressure release, for example. chapter contain only the additional components that are required for an understanding of the fluid power system The structures of most fluid power control systems are or are directly related to the control technology. The engineered in Categories 1, 3 or 4. Since Category B req uirements that must be met by fluid power systems are already requires observance of the relevant standards and described in full in [58; 59]. [60 to 63] are further relevant of the basic safety principles, Category B and 1 fluid power standards. control systems do not differ essentially in their control structure, but only in the higher safety-related reliability The majority of control system examples are electrohy- of the relevant valves. For this reason, this report does draulic or electropneumatic controls. A range of safety not present any Category B fluid power control systems. requirements on these control systems are satisfied by Further information on hydraulics and pneumatics can be the electrical part of the control system, for example the found on the IFA website (www.dguv.de/ifa, Webcode: requirement for energy changes on electrohydraulic con- d1029520). trol systems to be controlled. 8.1.3 Electronic and programmable electronic On the control examples described here, the required control systems safety function is the stopping of a hazardous movement or the reversal of a direction of movement. Prevention of Electronic components are generally more sensitive to unexpected start-up is implicitly included. The required external environmental influences than electromechanical 102 8 Circuit examples for SRP/CS components. If no particular measures are taken, the use In contrast to electromechanical circuits, purely electronic of electronic components at temperatures below 0°C is circuits often have the advantage that a change of state subject to substantially greater constraints compared to can be forced dynamically. This permits attainment of the electromechanical components. In addition, environmen- required DC at appropriately short intervals and without tal influences exist that are virtually irrelevant to electro- alteration of the state of external signals (forced dyna- mechanical circuit elements but that present crucial prob- mics). lems for electronic systems, namely any electromagnetic disturbances that are coupled into electronic systems in Decoupling measures are required between different the form of conducted disturbance or electromagnetic channels in order to prevent common cause failures. fields. In some cases, greater effort is required in order These measures generally consist of galvanically isolated for adequate resistance to disturbance to be attained for contacts, resistor or diode networks, filter circuits, opto- industrial use. Fault exclusion is virtually impossible on couplers and transformers. electronic components. In consequence, safety cannot in principle be guaranteed by the design of a particular Systematic failures may lead to simultaneous failure of component, but only by certain circuit concepts and by redundant processing channels if this is not prevented by the application of appropriate measures for the control of timely consideration, in particular during the design and faults. integration phase. The use of principles such as closed- circuit current, diversity or overdimensioning enables According to the fault lists for electrical/electronic compo- electronic circuits to be designed to be robust. Measures nents to EN ISO 13849-2, the faults of short circuit, open that render the processing channels insensitive to