of D ten years. all components in the functional channels of the output part. • In Categories 2, 3 and 4: use of well-tried or proven-in- use components and use of well-tried safety principles. 6.2.18 Bus systems as “interconnecting means” In Category 2, there is no advantage in extending this requirement to the test channel, since the same result The discrete blocks of a designated architecture – input (PFH and PL) can be attained with a Category 1 single- unit, logic and output unit – must be connected together D channel system. not only logically, but also physically. For this purpose, the standard defines “interconnecting means”, which • In Categories 2 and 3: adequate measures against CCF, are regarded as part of the SRP/CS. The term “intercon- and DC of each component at least “low”. necting means” may initially appear strange in the field of electrical or fluid power technology. However, it serves • In Category 4: adequate measures against CCF, and DC as a generic term for electrical and fluid power lines, “high” for each component. and even for such components as mechanical plungers. All requirements of the standard therefore also apply to The DC requirement in the last two of these points applies these forms of “interconnecting means”. In the context of to each component in the subsystem, and therefore fault consideration, a conductor short circuit for example exceeds their respective generic requirements for the is an assumed fault. What is the situation however when Category, which relate to DC . Since however this con- bus systems are used to transmit safety-related informa- avg cerns the output part of the SRP/CS with mechanical, tion? Detailed consideration of such a complex subject is hydraulic or pneumatic components, only one component of course outside the scope of the standard, particularly per channel will be involved in most cases. Consequently, since the subject is already covered by DGUV test prin- the requirement for the DC of each component does not ciples (GS-ET-26, [38]) and a standard (IEC 61784-3 [39]). in practice constitute tightening of the requirements com- Bus systems that satisfy the requirements set out in these pared to the DC of the subsystem. publications can also be readily employed in the context avg of EN ISO 13849-1. Numerous bus systems suitable for The following additional information is provided: safety-related applications are already available on the market. • Category 1: the machine manufacturer must determine the T values of safety-related components based 10D 63 6 Design of safe control systems The publications referred to above employ a special fault 6.3 Development of safety-related software model in which consideration is given to the use of a black-box channel for the transmission of safety-related Comments such as the following are frequently heard: data: in other words, no particular requirements for fault “Of course, a software programmer with years of experi- detection, for example, are placed upon this transmis- ence no longer makes mistakes.” This hubris is in fact the sion channel itself. The model assumes the repetition, greatest mistake of all. Software is generally complicated, loss, insertion, incorrect sequence, corruption and delay which is why the number of failures caused by software of safety-related messages and the coupling of safety- faults is on the rise, in contrast to the situation for hard- related and non-safety-related messages as possible ware. How often are PC users surprised when a computer faults. Further possible aspects include faults that syste- peripheral ceases to work, and how often does the prob- matically corrupt messages, for example by completely lem turn out to have been caused by a part of the software inverting them. Measures in “safety layers” that are then that was not compatible with another piece of software, implemented in safety-related parts of control systems such as a driver? By contrast, hardware tend to be rare. enable transmission faults to be excluded with sufficient According to [41], normal software, i.e. simple software probability. Suitable measures include, for example, for simple functions, contains approximately 25 errors per the sequence number, timestamp, time expectations, 1,000 lines of code. Also according to [41], well written connection authentication, feedback message and data software contains around two to three errors per 1,000 integrity assurance. Data integrity assurance in particular lines of code, and the software employed in the Space frequently entails complex calculations. The purpose of Shuttle has (according to NASA) fewer than one error per these calculations is to determine the residual error pro- 10,000 lines. What does this mean in practice? A mobile bability R, and from it the residual error rate Λ (derived telephone has up to 200,000 lines of code and therefore from the lower-case λ for the failure rate for components). up to 600 software errors. A PC operating system has Exactly this value can then be calculated as the average 27 million lines of code and therefore up to 50,000 errors; probability of a dangerous failure per hour required for a the Space Shuttle up to 300 errors; and the software for PL as a proportion for the transmission of safety-relevant the Space Defense Initiative (SDI) up to 10,000 errors. messages. Both of the above publications limit the resi- These programming errors lie dormant in the products dual error rate to 1% of the maximum permissible value until, under certain conditions and in certain situations, for the probability of a dangerous failure per hour. Values they impact upon the products' function. Like no other stated by manufacturers are in fact frequently related to technology, software and therefore also its programmers an SIL (see Chapter 3); in practice, however, these values assume a greater responsibility than ever before. are compatible for use under a required PL (see also Figure 3.2). The 1% rule results in the contribution to the One of the essential changes in EN ISO 13849-1 compared probability of a dangerous failure per hour being virtually to its predecessor, EN 954-1, was the formulation for the negligible, i.e. it enables it to be added to