is in principle interchangeable. It is therefore diagnostics measures of the subsystem that may have recommended that subsystems sharing the same struc- been implemented internally have already been consi- ture be grouped together, as shown in Figure 6.14. This dered in the probability of failure, only supplementary dia- makes calculation of the PL simpler, and unnecessary gnostics measures acting externally upon the subsystem truncation effects, such as multiple capping of the MTTF may be considered for the DC of the block. More detailed D of a channel to 100 years, are avoided. information can be found in clause 2 of [32]. Clause 3 of this publication also addresses the case in which more Special cases nevertheless remain for which only rough than two functional channels are connected in parallel. rules, if any, can be stated at this time. One special case concerns the arrangement of subsystems in parallel. In A further issue that may arise in this context concerns the this case, simple, generic rules cannot be formulated assignment of a Category for a complete system that is 74 6 Design of safe control systems created in turn from subsystems for which the only avail- 6.5.2 Implementation able information is the average probability of dangerous failure per hour PFH . Besides information on the internal Where implementation takes the form of a two-hand D structure, information on the MTTF of each channel and control, this safety function can be described as fol- D on the DC , for which minimum requirements apply lows: when at least one of the two actuators S1 and S2 avg depending upon the Category, is also lacking in this case. is released, the hazardous movement of the clamping The same principle therefore applies as to parallel arran- bar and knife is interrupted, and both the clamping bar gements: the only alternative to a very rough estimation is and the knife are returned to their initial positions by re-evaluation, possibly with exploitation of intermediate spring force. A restart is prevented until both actuators results obtained. have been released and a new cycle initiated by the two-hand control. Controlled location of the operator's 6.5 Determining the PL with reference to the hands is achieved by means of two actuators that must example of a paper-cutting guillotine be operated simultaneously for the machine to be star- with diverse redundancy in the logic ted (for details, e.g. concerning immunity to defeating, control (Category 4 – PL e) see EN 574). The timing and logic of the electrical signals must be interpreted; a programmable electronic control This subclause supplements the general description with system is a suitable solution for this purpose, and will an illustration of how the PL is determined in practice. At generally also control the movement of the clamping the same time, the example described here in detail faci- bar and knife. Owing to the high forces required, these litates the reader's access to Chapter 8, which contains a parts are driven hydraulically. As described in Chapter 5 large number of circuit examples for diverse PLs, Catego- (see subclause 5.3.2), the safety function encompasses ries and forms of technology. both actuators – clamping bar and knife – since they are located in the same hazard zone. Figure 6.15 represents The text boxes with grey background shown below corres- an electrohydraulic conceptual schematic diagram show- pond to the brief descriptions in the form used in Chapter ing how the safety-related parts of control systems are 8. Additional explanations are also provided; reference to implemented in practice. As in Chapter 8, many details them for each circuit example would be too protracted in have of course been omitted from the schematic diagram Chapter 8. shown here in the interests of greater clarity. Besides the majority of functional parts of the control system required 6.5.1 Safety functions for operation of the machine within the process, certain safety-related details such as protective circuits (fuses, The example control system for a paper-cutting guillotine EMC) and “peripherals” (power supply, clock signals etc. described in Figure 5.7 is taken up again here. Of the for the logic) have also been omitted from the diagram. seven safety functions stated there, the implementation Owing to the required single-fault tolerance and tolerance of SF2, for which the required Performance Level was of an accumulation of undetected faults, decoupling ele- found to be PL e, is described by way of example. Since ments for example are also required in practice between r the various safety functions may make use of the same the interconnected inputs of the two logic channels, in components, all safety functions must be considered order for a defective input on one channel not to cause during implementation. For example, for safeguarding interference on the other channel. It must therefore be on the operator side, the product standard governing appreciated that a conceptual schematic diagram such paper-cutting guillotines, EN 1010-3, requires electro- as this does not constitute documentation from which a sensitive protective equipment (ESPE, not shown here) for replica could be fabricated; rather, its purpose is to illus- the safety function SF3, in addition to a two-hand control trate the structure of the safety technology. (THC). 6.5.3 Functional description Safety function (SF2): A functional description explaining the circuit structure and signal paths is essential for an understanding of the • Controlled location of the operator's hands outside circuit diagram. It is intended to permit identification of the danger zone during a hazardous movement the functional process during performance of the safety function (which may take place in different channels) and the implemented test measures. 75 6 Design of safe control systems Figure 6.15: Conceptual schematic diagram of the electronic drive of a hydraulic knife drive and a hydraulic clamping bar (essential components) Knife drive Clamping bar 1A 2A Hazardous Hazardous movement movement K3 K4 1V4 2V2 1S3 P 2S1 P K6 1V3 2V1 1V5 2V3 K5 1V2 1V1 1Z2 1Z1 M 1M 1P 1S1 1S2 3 + + + + + + + +