the channel containing the microcontroller, in Besides the tests, an inspection is performed during which all commands used are tested, and tests of ade- development of the documentation describing the quate quality of the random-access memory (RAM) and basic and well-tried safety principles applied and the read-only memory (ROM). Tests of comparable quality measures for the control and avoidance of systematic to those in the parallel channel are performed in the failures according to subclause 6.1.2 of this report and second channel (ASIC). It shall be demonstrated by Annex G of the standard. The purpose of this inspection verification that the measures described in the specifi- is assessment of whether the principles and measures cation have been implemented correctly. have been adequately considered during the develop- ment process. The contactor relays K3, K4, K5 and K6 are assigned a DC of 99%. This is appropriate owing to the plausibility An example of the control of systematic system failures testing by readback of the mechanically linked con- is that the safety-related software monitors execution tacts of the contactor relays. The plausibility tests that of the program sequence for errors. The effectiveness of have already been checked during verification of the process monitoring is tested by injected faults. Category also serve at this point to demonstrate proper operation. In order to demonstrate the capacity of the SRP/CS to withstand the specified environmental conditions, tests The pushbuttons S1 and S2 are assigned a DC of 99%. are performed under all anticipated and predictable The reasoning for this is cross monitoring and a fre- adverse conditions for factors including temperature, quent signal change. This assumption is confirmed by humidity and electromagnetic interference. This con- verification. This assumption will be proven by a fault- stitutes an example of a measure for the avoidance of case test at another point. systematic failures. The limits for the temperature and humidity under which the paper-cutting guillotine may The valves 2V1, 2V2, 1V3 and 1V4 are monitored cycli- be operated are set out in the specification, which is cally indirectly by the pressure switches 2S1 and 1S3. confirmed by verification of the document. Since the positions of the valves can be queried for their plausibility parallel to the machine cycle, a value • Verification of the software of 99% for the DC is regarded as reasoned. Here too, the assumption is confirmed on the prototype by fault tests Development and validation of the software are on the valves. described in detail in subclause 6.3. At this point, the software is also verified, i.e. testing is performed of • Verification of the measures against CCF proper operation and also of the response times of the software integrated in the hardware. Testing takes the The minimum requirements for measures against com- form of functional tests (black box tests) and extended mon cause failure are satisfied, with at least 65 points. functional tests in which firstly, the safety-related input Further measures are also effective in parts of the signals shall be processed correctly to safety-related control system. 15 points are allowed for implementa- output signals, and secondly, test cases with injected tion of the measure “physical separation between the faults are executed in order to verify the specified fault- signal paths”. Correct implementation of the measure mode responses of the firmware of the microcontroller shall be demonstrated by an analysis of development K1. In other words: it is clarified whether the require- documentation such as circuit diagrams, and by tests ments of the specification have been implemented on the hardware. The diversity employed for K1 and K2 correctly in the software. makes a substantial contribution to the CCF: the diffe- 96 7 Verification and validation • Checking of the assessment of the PL 7.8.3 Examination of whether all safety functions have been analysed The simplified procedure according to EN ISO 13849-1 (see also Block 8 in Figure 7.1) was applied for estimation of the PL. Its correct application is confirmed. Calculation of the MTTF in The V&V activities shown here for SF2 are conducted for D accordance with subclause 6.2.11 and Annex D and of all safety functions performed by the SRP/CS (SF1 to SF6). the average diagnostic coverage DC in accordance The additional effort is however low, since many safety avg with Annex E is checked, as is correct determining of the functions employ the same hardware. The analyses and PL from the previously confirmed Category, MTTF , and tests shall show that the safety functions have been D DC values by means of the bar chart shown in Figure implemented correctly. Once all safety functions have avg 6.10. been analysed, evaluation according to EN ISO 13849-1 and -2 is complete. • Verification of the information for use The information for use shall be reviewed concerning the two-hand control. This also includes explanation of the function in conjunction with the safety objectives that are to be attained. It is immaterial when the infor- mation for use of the SRP/CS passes review, including with regard to the following points: description of the intended use; statement of information on the PL and the Category (including dated reference to the stan- dard); explanation of all operating modes; description of the safeguards and safety functions with response times, environmental conditions for operation and external interfaces; information and technical data on transport, safe erection, commissioning and mainte- nance. Here too, the result of the review shall be recor- ded in writing. • Validation of the combination and integration of SRP/CS The safety function described is implemented by an SRP/CS. Since the different technologies, electronic and hydraulic, are however combined within this SRP/CS, certain tests that are necessary when SRP/CS are com- bined should also be performed here, unless they have already been included in validation of the Category. These tests include comparison of the interface data between the technologies employed, and functional tests and extended functional tests. 97 98 8 Circuit examples for SRP/CS i Changes with respect to the second edition The description in each