to be obtained, certain Changes with respect to the second edition restrictions and simplifications are necessary. Firstly, the (BGIA Report 2/2008e): standard limits the number of designated architectures and therefore also the number of necessary models. • Reference to Note 1 in Annex K of the new standard Secondly, the large number of input parameters has been reduced by intelligent grouping. For this purpose, the • Explanations from subclause 4.5.4 of the standard of values MTTF and DC were introduced, each of which D avg the time aspects during testing brought into line with groups several input parameters. the new standard The MTTF used in the diagram represents a mean time to D • Explanations inserted concerning extension of the failure of each channel in its dangerous failure mode. The mission time beyond 20 years MTTF values of several function blocks are grouped here D to form a single channel MTTF (Chapter 6 and Annex D). D • “Reference” subclause updated All MTTF values are based upon the assumption of con- D stant component failure rates λ , hence MTTF = 1/λ . D D D • Sequence of the images brought into line with the text In a two-channel structure with different MTTF values D between channels, an averaged substitute MTTF value is D employed. Conversely, the DC represents the weighted avg Unlike its predecessor, EN 954-1 [1], EN ISO 13849-1 makes average value of the diagnostic coverage for the entire provision for demonstration of a Performance Level (PL) in system; this value is used for assignment to one of the addition to examination of the Category. The Performance four DC levels (see Table 6.4). avg Level is determined numerically, as shown in Table 6.1 of this report, from the average probability of a dangerous The meaningfulness and permissibility of this grouping failure per hour (PFH ) of the system (cf. Footnote 4 in within the required quantification accuracy have been D Chapter 3, Page 15). This value must be determined from demonstrated by comprehensive test calculations. The the system structure, the failure rates of the components, same applies to the relationship, permitted in sub- the level of diagnostic coverage provided by automatic clause 4.5.4 of the standard, between the MTTF values D testing, the mission time of the system, and in the case of of the test and functional channels in the Category 2 relevant system structures, the sensitivity of the system to architecture: the MTTF of the test channel must be at D CCF (common cause failure). least half the MTTF of the functional channel. Finally, a D requirement is imposed for redundant structures that Mathematical models are employed for this purpose common cause failures be reduced to an appropriate that take account of the combined effect of the stated level: no more than 2% of the dangerous failures may factors and return the result in the form of the PFH (as have a common cause. This must be demonstrated in D an average value over the mission time). In theory, a each case during application of the standard by means of custom model should be created for each system under a simple estimation method (Annex F). analysis when the standard is applied. For some common structural variants, the “designated architectures” of The Markov models upon which the bar chart in EN ISO EN ISO 13849-1, subclause 6.2, (cf. subclauses 6.2.1 to 13849-1 (and Figure G.1 of this report) is based take 6.2.7 of this report), Markov models have been developed account of operation of the systems under underlying con- at the IFA the numerical results of which are compiled ditions that are realistic for machinery. They assume that in the form of a bar chart in subclause 4.5.4, Figure 5 of the systems: the standard (Figures 6.10 and G.1 of this report). This dispenses with the need for development of a dedicated • Are subject to at least to one demand of the safety func- mathematical model and for complex calculations, pro- tion per year vided the system essentially shares the form of one of the designated architectures, or can be broken down into • Assume the safe “Operating inhibition” state in res- system parts that do so (cf. in this context subclause 6.3 ponse to automatic detection of an internal fault, and and Annex H of EN ISO 13849-1, or subclause 6.4 of this are then generally switched off manually shortly after- report). A basic introduction to the Markov modelling wards (and at the latest after a few hours) technique can be found for example in [2]. 295 Annex G PFH D PL (1/h) 10-4 a 10-5 b 3 · 10-6 c 10-6 d 10-7 e 10-8 Cat. B Cat. 1 Cat. 2 Cat. 2 Cat. 3 Cat. 3 Cat. 4 DC = DC = DC = DC = DC = DC = DC = avg avg avg avg avg avg avg none none low medium low medium high Legend PFH Probability of a dangerous failure per hour D PL Performance Level MTTF of each channel = low Figure G.1: D PFH and Perfor- D mance Level as MTTF of each channel = medium D a function of the Category, DC and MTTF of each channel = high avg D MTTF D • Are repaired or replaced and restored to service fol- quantity indicated on the vertical axis of the bar chart lowing assumption of the operating inhibition state, an (cf. Figure G.1). accident or detected dangerous failure Despite consideration being given in principle to Under these underlying conditions, the quantitative tar- demands upon the safety function and to repair, the get value for modelling, the PFH , represents the average absolute values for the demand rate and the repair rate D number per hour of demands upon the safety function (the reciprocal of the repair time) have only a negligibly that are not met owing to failure. Where demands are small influence upon the PFH in this sense. Only for the D made continually