stack of paper. ping bar. In the present case however, this division is not made, since owing to the low number of components in The following measures can however be taken: SF1 to SF6, the required PFH can still be attained when D these safety functions are grouped. 1. Shrouding of all points of access to the danger zone except on the operator side. Characteristics of the safety functions 2. Avoidance of sharp edges and corners. The cut must be interrupted immediately should the light curtain be penetrated. The safety function SF3 therefore 3. Assurance of a suitable working position and accessi- takes priority over SF2. For SF5, the maximum permissible bility of the controls. force for the clamping bar during the “indicate cut” func- tion must be specified (see [27]). 4. Ergonomic design of the machine. 5.7.4 Determining of the required 5. Avoidance of electrical hazards. Performance Level PL r 6. Avoidance of hazards presented by the hydraulic The PL must be determined for each safety function. If r equipment. the situations in which the individual safety functions are used are analysed, evaluation of the risk parameters S, F and P is seen to be similar for the safety functions SF1 to SF6: 36 5 Safety functions and their contribution to risk reduction • S2 – serious, generally irreversible injury of these machines have already been implemented with PL e, as specified in [28]. The result of the risk analysis is • F2 – continuous presence in the danger zone; the fre- therefore confirmed by the situation in practice; a possi- quency is therefore greater than once every 15 minutes ble reduction in the PL is not indicated. Figure 5.11 shows r the documentation and risk graph in the SISTEMA soft- • P2 – evasion of a hazardous situation is virtually impos- ware application for the SF1 safety function. sible An adequate risk reduction has been achieved for the In accordance with the risk graph in Figure 5.9, this hazard G3, “Cutting by the knife in the rest state”, by evaluation yields a required Performance Level PL of e. mechanical coupling of the knife and the clamping bar. r The incidence and severity of accidents on comparable A safety function is not required. machines is low. The safety functions considered here Figure 5.11: Documentation and risk graph for SF1 37 5 Safety functions and their contribution to risk reduction 5.7.5 Complementary protective measures device features a two-channel circuit, stopping in an emergency therefore also satisfies a PL of e. The following measures are required: 2. Freeing of a trapped person requires a reverse move- 1. Emergency stop ment of the knife and clamping bar; this is achieved by spring force. Suitable safety functions with a PL of e are already available in the machine control system and are used for the emergency stop. Provided the emergency-stop 38 6 Design of safe control systems i Changes with respect to the second edition • Raising of the MTTF capping in Category 4 to D (BGIA Report 2/2008e): 2,500 years added in subclause 6.2.13 (FMEA vs. parts count method). • Further information added in subclause 6.1.2 (Syste- matic failures) on application-specific integrated cir- • Explanations of the test rate revised and information cuits (ASICs), field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs), on components with DC < 60% down to DC = 0% added programmable logic modules and complex standard in subclause 6.2.14 (diagnostic coverage). mo dules. subclause 6.1.3 (Ergonomics) brought into line with the new 2006/42/EC Machinery Directive. • New subclause 6.2.17 added on alternative determi- ning of the PFH for the output part of the SRP/CS in D • Recommendations added to subclause 6.2.5 (Cate- accordance with subclause 4.5.5 of the standard. gory 2) for interpretation of the requirements for a Category 2. • The previous subclause 6.2.17 (Bus systems as “inter- connecting means”) becomes subclause 6.2.18 as a • Clarification added in subclauses 6.2.5 (Category result. 2) and 6.2.14 (DC) that up to a PL of c, providing a r warning is a permissible alternative under certain • Subclause 6.3.10 concerning requirements for SRESW circumstances to initiation of a safe state. In addition, for standard components brought into line with the testing immediately upon demand of the safety func- new subclause 4.6.2 of the standard. Reference to IFA tion added as an alternative to testing being at least Report 2/2016 concerning safety-related application 100 times as frequent as the demand of the safety software for machinery also added. function. If the safety function is tested only 25 times as frequently as a demand is made upon it, this can • Summation of PFH values stated as the new standard D be estimated on the safe side by multiplication of the procedure in subclause 6.4 (Combination of SRP/CSs PFH with the factor of 1.1. In addition, the requirement as subsystems); tabular method for downgrading of the D for the quality of the test equipment in Category 2 now PL according to the number of subsystems degraded to refers to the MTTF of the test channel (instead of only the status of an alternative solution for the event that D of the “TE” block) in relation to the MTTF of the func- PFH values are not available for subsystems. D D tional channel (instead of only of the “L” block). • Example of the paper-cutting guillotine in subclause • “Encapsulated subsystem” introduced in subclauses 6.5 updated. 6.2.9 and 6.4. • References to SISTEMA Cookbooks 1, 4 and 6 as sour- ces of further information added. 6.1 Introduction The safety-related quality of the SRP/CS is indicated by one of five Performance Levels (PLs). Each of these PLs Once the precise safety function and its required risk corresponds to a range of the probability of a dangerous reduction in the form of the PL have been defined, failure per hour (Table 6.1, Page 40). In addition to the r design proper begins of the safety-related parts of the average probability of a dangerous failure per hour