minimum DC requirements for avg sor standard, was in force. the attained Category are met even though individual blocks have a DC below 60%, or even no diagnostics at • A further point is the reliability of the test equipment all (DC = 0%). In such cases, it must be determined on itself. For this, the standard sets out only the basic a case-by-case basis whether this form of implementa- requirements of Category B, applicable to all Catego- tion is consistent with the requirements of the Category. ries, i.e. compliance with the relevant standards in Category 3 requires for example that wherever reasona- order for the anticipated influences to be withstood, bly possible, a single fault must be detected at or prior and the application of basic safety principles. Well-tried to the next demand of the safety function. For Category safety principles should also be applied to the extent 2, a “check of the safety function” is a generic require- possible. Where dangerous failures of the test equip- ment. Category 4 also requires detection of the discrete ment are detected by its cyclical incorporation into the fault, and only “if this detection is not possible” that process, deviation from these basic requirements is the safety function also be performed in the event of an permissible. An additional general requirement is that accumulation of undetected faults. the test equipment should not fail prior to the compo- nents that it monitors. At the same time, it is inefficient • With regard to programmable electronic systems in par- for much greater investment to be made in the reliability ticular, a large number of complex faults is conceivable; of the test equipment than in the safety equipment corresponding requirements must therefore also be performing the safety function proper. EN ISO 13849-1 placed upon the complexity of the tests. In this case, therefore imposes only limited requirements upon the should a DC of over 60% be required for the (program- reliability of the test equipment. For Categories 3 and 4, mable or complex) logic, EN ISO 13849-1 calls for at reliance is upon single-fault tolerance, since including least one measure for variable memory, invariableme- failure of the test equipment, a total of three dangerous mory and the processing unit – where present – with a failures must occur before the safety function ceases to DC of at least 60% in each case. be performed. The occurrence of such a case unobser- ved is considered extremely unlikely and not therefore critical. For Category 2, a secondary condition exists – at least with the simplified procedure for determining 59 6 Design of safe control systems Once the DC values of all blocks are known, the DC or overloads that were not adequately addressed during avg value for the system is calculated by means of the design of the control system. Should the channels not approximation formula (4). This formula weights the indi- be adequately separated, dangerous secondary faults vidual DC values with the associated MTTF values, since may occur that render the intended single-fault tolerance D very reliable parts (with a high MTTF ) are less reliant ineffective. The quantitative relevance of these effects D upon effective tests than less reliable parts (the sums in in a specific system is difficult to estimate (refer also to numerators and denominators are formed across N blocks Annex F). In Annex D of IEC 61508-6 [37], the “beta-factor” of the entire system): model is used for this purpose. In this model, the rate of common cause failure is placed, as β · λ , in relation to DC DC DC D 1 + 2 + ... + N the dangerous failure rate of a channel λ D . Without a pre- DC = MTTF D1 MTTF D2 MTTF DN (4) cise FMEA, β can at best only be estimated for real-case avg 1 1 1 SRP/CS, however. For this purpose, EN ISO 13849-1 con- + + ... + MTTF MTTF MTTF tains a checklist of eight important counter-measures, for D1 D2 DN which between 5 and 25 points are awarded: Once obtained, the DC constitutes a value describing avg the quality of the test and monitoring measures averaged • Physical separation between the signal paths of diffe- over the entire SRP/CS. Before this value can be substitu- rent channels (15 points) ted in the simplified quantification of the PL together with the Category (five classes) and the MTTF of each channel • Diversity in the technology, the design or the physical D (three classes), it must be assigned to one of the four principles of the channels (20 points) classes in Table 6.4. • Protection against possible overloading (15 points) Table 6.4: The four classes of diagnostic coverage in accordance with the • Use of well-tried components (5 points) simplified approach of EN ISO 13849-1 • Failure mode and effects analysis during development, Diagnostic coverage (DC) for the identification of potential common cause fail- Description Range ures (5 points) None DC < 60% Low 60% ≤ DC < 90% • Training of designers/maintainers in CCF and its avoi- dance (5 points) Medium 90% ≤ DC < 99% High 99% ≤ DC • Protection against common cause failures triggered by contamination (mechanical and fluid power systems) and electromagnetic interference (electrical systems) When the DC is subsequently used in the simplified (25 points) avg quantification involving the bar chart (see subclause 6.2.16), only the respective lower key value of a DC class • Protection against common cause failures triggered by avg (0, 60, 90 or 99) is used. A further simplification thus unfavourable environmental conditions (10 points) takes effect here, based upon an estimation erring on the safe side. The points stated for a given counter-measure are to be awarded either in full, or not at all; no points are awarded In specific cases, this coarsely simplified system may for a “partial” implementation of the counter-measures. however give rise to paradoxes, if for example an Different packages of measures may however be