a list of 6.2 shows the content of the technical documentation measures, and therefore indirectly also of influences that are to be considered. The measures are divided into those 44 6 Design of safe control systems Box 6.2: Technical documentation for machines: excerpt from the Machinery Directive (2006/42/EC), Annex VII, A 1. The technical file shall comprise the following: a) a construction file including: — a general description of the machinery, — the general drawing of the machinery and drawings of the control circuits, as well as the pertinent descriptions and explanations necessary for understanding the operation of the machinery, — full detailed drawings, accompanied by any calculation notes, test results, certificates, etc., required to check the conformity of the machinery with the essential health and safety requirements, — the documentation on risk assessment demonstrating the procedure followed, including: i) a list of the essential health and safety requirements which apply to the machinery, ii) the description of the protective measures implemented to eliminate identified hazards or to reduce risks and, when appropriate, the indication of the residual risks associated with the machinery, — the standards and other technical specifications used, indicating the essential health and safety requirements covered by these standards, — any technical report giving the results of the tests carried out either by the manufacturer or by a body chosen by the manufacturer or his authorised representative, — a copy of the instructions for the machinery, — where appropriate, the declaration of incorporation for included partly completed machinery and the relevant assembly instructions for such machinery, — where appropriate, copies of the EC declaration of conformity of machinery or other products incorporated into the machinery, — a copy of the EC declaration of conformity. b) for series manufacture, the internal measures that will be implemented to ensure that the machinery remains in conformity with the provisions of this Directive. for the avoidance of failures (G.3 and G.4) and those for lopment techniques and measures for the avoidance of their control (G.2). Figure 6.4 provides an overview. The systematic failures. measures for the avoidance of failures must be effective throughout all phases of a product's lifetime, and are Particular care must be taken where complex standard addressed accordingly to some degree in Chapter 7 of components are used. Should software be involved, the this report, under the aspect of validation. Although not standard provides relevant information; refer in this con- stated explicitly, appropriate care must be taken not text to subclause 6.3.10 of the present report. Manufactu- least during modifications, troubleshooting and main- rers of standard components take only limited measures tenance. It is during these phases in particular that the for fault avoidance in a safety context. The user must details of development are not (or are no longer) evident. therefore concentrate on the measures for the control Conversely, measures for the control of failures must be of systematic failures. Should for example two standard implemented within a product, and take full effect during PLCs be used in two-channel structures, an overvoltage operation. Besides basic requirements, the standard also in the power supply could give rise to a systematic failure lists measu res for selection, one or more of which are to despite redundancy (including diverse redundancy). be applied in consideration of the complexity of the Systematic failure can be prevented in such cases only SRP/CS and of the PL (marked “in addition” in Figure 6.4). by additional measures.The astute reader of this report may wonder in what way these measures differ from those Most of the measures are explained briefly in the stan- against common cause failure (CCF, see subclause 6.2.15). dard. Attention is drawn to the fact that in the day-to-day Common cause fail ures are of course also to be regar- activities of the IFA, diversity is assumed to be of major ded as systematic fail ures. The analysis of CCF however benefit in general, and not only as shown for hardware in addresses only structures that are multi-channel in form Figure 6.4 (see Page 46). Refer in this context also to the or that at least possess test equipment (Categories 2, 3 information in subclause 6.3.10 concerning the require- and 4). A further difference is the “attempt” to consider ments upon software. CCF aspects numerically (quantitatively); by contrast, the analysis described in Annex G of the standard is purely Should application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs), qualitative. Given adequate measures against systematic field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs), programmable failures in accordance with Annex G of the standard and logic modules or similar be used, attention is drawn to observance of basic and well-tried safety principles, it Annex F of IEC 61508-2:2010, which lists design and deve- 45 6 Design of safe control systems Figure 6.4: Measures against systematic failures in accordance with Annex G of the standard Causes Measures for the avoidance of failures of systematic failures Suitable materials and suitable manufacturing methods Correct dimensioning and geometry · Prior to commissioning, e.g.: Proper selection, arrangement, assembly, installation – Manufacturing faults Components with compatible operating characteristics – Error during design (incorrect Ability to withstand specified environmental conditions selection, incorrect dimensioning, Components complying with an appropriate standard, defective software) with defined failure types – Error during integration (incorrect Function testing selection, incorrect wiring) INTEGRATION: Project management, documentation Black-box test In addition: · Following commissioning, e.g.: Measures for the control of failures – Power failure/fluctuation De-energization principle – Environmental influences Design for the control of voltage influences – Wear, overload Design for the control of environmental influences – Incorrect maintenance Program sequence monitoring (for software) „Safe“ data communication processes (bus systems) Automatic tests In addition: Redundant hardware/diverse hardware Positive mode of actuation Mechanically linked contacts/direct opening action Oriented mode of failure Over dimensioning would not appear particularly difficult to satisfy the systematic failures – and in some cases even as operating requirements for measures against common cause failure states – that must be controlled by the SRP/CS such that (CCF). the safe state is achieved and/or maintained. Since