component printed circuit boards. Caution is required with discrete or is divided into the proportions λ (“safe” mode, i.e. safe low-integration components with a relatively high failure S failure) and λ (“dangerous” mode, i.e. dangerous failure). rate. Should for example a contactor or a power semicon- D For this purpose, information such as the “dangerous ductor contribute substantially to the total failure rate of failure mode” of the function block must be known (see the function block, failure should be assumed in cases of above). A “puristic” approach requires this to be perfor- doubt to be predominantly dangerous. This applies machinery. The design of such safety functions is part of a process for the The risk reduction strategy presented in EN ISO 12100 [3] design of safe machines. This chapter therefore begins by was adopted in Figure 1 of EN ISO 13849-1 and supple- addressing the requirements of the Machinery Directive, mented with the aspects detailed in the latter standard before describing the definition of safety functions and (see Figure 5.1). A risk assessment is first performed. An their properties. Subclause 5.7 then demonstrates imple- important point is the assumption during the following mentation with reference to the practical example of a steps that no protective measures have as yet been taken paper cutting guillotine control. on the machine. Ultimately, the entire risk reduction pro- cess serves to determine the type and also the “quality” 5.1 Requirements of the EC Machinery of the protective measure/safeguard that is to be imple- Directive mented. The EC Machinery Directive [2] has been transposed into The risk reduction process begins with definition of the German law by the German Product Safety Act (ProdSG), limits of the machine. Besides the space limits and time and sets out essential health and safety requirements for limits of the machine, attention must be paid in particular machines. The general provisions of the Machinery Direc- to its use limits. Such limits include the intended use of tive are supported by standards. Particularly significant the machine (e.g. materials which may permissibly be in this respect is EN ISO 12100 [3], Safety of machinery machined on it), including all operating modes and the –General principles for design. The machine designer is various intervention procedures. Reasonably foreseeable presented with a design method that is suitable for achie- misuse of the machine must also be considered; this ving machine safety. This method – even med in two steps. more to elements of safety outputs that switch output currents. Firstly, the total failure rate is distributed between the various failure types (e.g. open circuit, short circuit, For components intended to enhance the circuit‘s resis- drift, change in function). Information on the failure type tance to disturbance phenomena, such as electromag- distribution of a range of components can be found for netic interference or excessive ambient temperature, it is example in IEC 61709 [7] and IEC/TR 62380 [4]. Typical advantageous to distinguish between two possible cases failure type distributions can also be found in commercial for assessment of the function block‘s behaviour. If the FMEDA software. The data in the various sources are not incidence of disturbance phenomena is merely “possible” consistent. Unnecessary selection of a different source for and the function of the circuit measure is essentially to the failure type distribution from component to compo- increase the availability of the device under (infrequent) nent is not acceptable. unfavourable conditions, simultaneous presence of the “disturbance phenomenon” in the event of component In the second step, the proportions accounted for by each failure need not be assumed during assessment of the failure type are assigned to λ or λ , according to whether function-block behaviour. Conversely, should the device‘s S D the failure type concerned causes the function block to intended form of operation be associated with occasional fail in its safe or unsafe mode. A continuation in function to continuous presence of the disturbance or should this without change is regarded in this case as a safe-mode be anticipated in view of the typical operating conditions failure. (e.g. installation within the range of known sources of electromagnetic interference or at a hot site), assessment Figure B.3 shows a simplified pragmatic approach that of the component failure must take account of the dis- does not rely upon a particular source for the failure type turbance. The same applies to assessment of the failure distributions and that is limited to determining which of detectability provided by diagnostics measures for these the three following cases applies to a component: components. a) All failure types result in safe-mode failure of the func- Where components are subject to wear, a substitute tion block, or have no impact upon its behaviour. failure rate constant over time is generally applied. This is calculated by means of formula C.5 in EN ISO 13849, b) At least one failure type exists that causes the function Part 1, Annex C.4.2. The B value, which states the ave- 10D block to fail safely, and one failure type that causes it rage number of switching cycles before dangerous failure, to fail dangerously. is required for this purpose. The B value should ideally 10D be obtained from the manufacturer of the component, c) All failure types cause the function block to fail in its who should also state which mode of failure was dangerous mode. assumed for this purpose to be the dangerous mode 256 Annex B (e.g. the failure of contacts to open), since in principle, components is 0. Dangerous-mode failure of elements a mode of failure can be assessed as dangerous or not R2 to R5, K1 to K3 and X1 is detected fully by “Test 1” (the dangerous only with respect to a specific application. In only test in this example), i.e. when LED P1 is switched many cases, only a manufacturer‘s B value (number of off for test purposes, the test detects an output voltage 10 switching cycles before any form of failure) is available. of > 0. The component-related DC value of