by a probability of a dangerous failure of the SRP/CS caused colleague, in order to ensure that no faults have crept in by an error in the SRESW being strongly reduced. at a different point in the specification. Accordingly, all development and verification measures and also valida- Besides the SRESW requirements, the standard sets out tion of the affected safety functions must be repeated. further requirements, more concerning the hardware, that must be met when standard components are used In view of the effort described, it is understandable that for SRP/CS. These include the avoidance and control of the influence of a modification upon the safety functions systematic faults, and suitability for the anticipated envi- must be studied and documented systematically. Since ronmental conditions such as climate, vibration and elec- modifications may have a not inconsiderable effect upon tromagnetic compatibility (EMC). These additional requi- proper performance of the safety function, a suitable rements continue to apply irrespective of SRESW. They procedure must be set out from the outset. If appropriate, also include the requirement for basic safety principles to this should include appointment of the persons respon- be applied from Category B upwards and well-tried safety sible. principles from Category 1 upwards. In addition, the basic requirements of Category B must be met for all Catego- 6.3.10 Requirements for the software of ries, namely: the SRP/CS must be designed, constructed, standard components in SRP/CS selected, assembled and combined at least in compliance with the relevant standards, for example IEC 61131-2 for Safety-related controls are often implemented by means PLCs and IEC 61800-1/2 for frequency inverters. of standard components for industrial applications. Since the standard formulates requirements for the implemen- Development with quality assurance in accordance with tation of SRESW and SRASW, these must also be satisfied ISO 900x is not made an explicit requirement by the stan- with regard to electronically programmable standard com- dard; it can however be regarded as a basic safety prin- ponents. Restrictions exist however that do not apply to ciple with regard to the use of standard components. tested safety components. 70 6 Design of safe control systems Table 6.6 shows the possible combinations of PL and ween two channels (the difference in the technologies Category with standard components, and whether and if em ployed), the probability of a dangerous failure of the so how the requirements upon SRESW are to be met. SRP/CS being caused by an error in the SRESW is strongly reduced. Systematic failures and common cause failures It remains to be clarified what is meant by “technological are relevant in this context. diversity”. This means that owing to the diversity bet- Table 6.6: Requirements for the SRESW of standard components (to EN ISO 13849-1) Combination PL Category Conditions Requirements for the SRESW of the No. standard components 1 a, b B, 2, 3 • Compliance with relevant product standards No SRESW requirements are placed on • Quality-assured design as a basic safety industrial standard components. principle 2 a, b, c 1 Implementation with the use of electronic compo- nents is generally not possible, since they are not considered well-tried components in the sense of EN ISO 13849-1, Section 6.2.4 3 c, d 2, 3 • As No. 1 No SRESW requirements are placed on • Two channels employing diverse technology; industrial standard components. the required fault detection (DC) is implemen- ted by SRASW 4 c, d 2, 3 Two channels without diverse technology; the Full SRESW requirements in accordance required fault detection (DC) is implemented by with EN ISO 13849-1, Section 4.6.2 apply, SRASW including to industrial standard compo- nents. A safety analysis by the compo- nent manufacturer is required. 5 e 3, 4 Section 4.6.2 of the standard states that PL e is not possible for standard components. The requirement for “technological diversity” can nor- • The two channels employ components of the same kind mally be regarded as satisfied in the following examples: from different manufacturers, without further informa- tion on the diversity of the embedded software. In this • One channel (functional channel or test channel) scenario, it cannot normally be ruled out that the two employs components containing embedded software. manufacturers use the same embedded software com- The second channel employs solely components with- ponents, and possibly even identical hardware (brand out embedded software, i.e. mechanical, electronic, labelling). electromechanical, pneumatic or hydraulic compo- nents. • The two channels employ components of different kinds from the same manufacturer, without further informa- • The two channels employ diverse embedded software, tion on the embedded software. such as different operating systems running on identi- cal or different hardware. Requirements for SRASW Note: when identical hardware is used, particular atten- tion must be paid to the systematic capability of the The requirements upon SRASW are geared to the PL that components for the required Performance Level. must be attained by the subsystem containing the pro- grammable standard component. If for example a stan- • The two channels employ different hardware (e.g. micro- dard component is employed in one channel in diverse processors with different processor cores), since it is redundancy with a different technology (e.g. fluid power) assumed that the associated embedded software was in the other channel in Category 3 or 4, the IFA's recom- programmed in different development environments. mendation is that the requirements upon SRASW can be reduced by one PL level (e.g. from PL d to PL c) owing to The requirement for “technological diversity” can nor- the lower probability of a dangerous failure caused by mally be regarded as not being satisfied in the following systematic errors in the SRASW. This can be inferred from examples: subclause 7.4.3, “Synthesis of elements to achieve the 71 6 Design of safe control systems required systematic capability”, of IEC 61508-2 [48]. In system, beginning with an initiating event through to the case of Category 2, only the requirements upon the attainment of the safe state. In reality however, it is often SRASW of the test channel can be lowered.