constant D D excluded without the reason for exclusion being imme- fail ure rate λ over the lifetime, as MTTF = 1/λ . The D D D diately apparent (such as the peeling-off of tracks on a conversion from hours to years must of course be con- properly dimensioned circuit-board layout), precise rea- sidered. For components that wear primarily as a result soning must be stated in the technical documentation. of their mechanical operation, the reliability is usually expressed in switching cycles, for example as a B 10D Provided the relevant conditions are met, fault exclusions value, i.e. the mean number of cycles until 10% of the are also possible for components, for example for the components fail dangerously. The MTTF can be calcula- D electrical break contacts and the mechanical actuation ted in this case by consideration of the mean number of of electromechanical position switches or emergency operations per year n that are anticipated in the appli- op stop devices. The validity of fault exclusions may be cation concerned. For more details, refer to Annex D. 55 6 Design of safe control systems • “Dangerous” indicates that only failures that impair for mechanical, hydraulic and electronic components, performance of the safety function are ultimately consi- the standard also contains B values for pneumatic and 10D dered for the PL (unsafe failure). By contrast, safe failu- electromechanical components. Details are described in res may well cause the safe state to be assumed (opera- Annex D. ting inhibition) or reduce the availability or productivity of a machine, but the safety function is nevertheless A convenient source of reliability data for components executed properly, or the safe state initiated/maintai- intended for use in safety-oriented control systems are ned. In redundant structures, however, the “dangerous” the large number of available SISTEMA libraries (see attribute refers to each individual channel. Should a Annex H). These contain MTTF or B values for elements D 10D failure in one channel result in the safety function being and components, and PL and PFH values for entire sub- D rendered inoperative, the failure concerned is conside- systems. red dangerous, even where a further channel is still able to perform the safety function successfully. 6.2.13 FMEA versus the parts count method An MTTF may be stated both for an individual compo- Once the MTTF values of all safety-related components D D nent, such as a transistor, valve or contactor, and for a have been obtained, certain simple rules can be used to block, a channel, or the control system as a whole. This calculate the MTTF value of the control system from them. D overall MTTF represents the value for a channel, possibly A number of methods can be used for this purpose: com- D symmetrized over several channels, and is based upon plex, with the use of a precise failure mode and effects the MTTF of all components involved in the SRP/CS. In analysis (FMEA), or fast and simple by means of the parts D accordance with the bottom-up principle, the unit under count method, involving minor estimations erring on the consideration is successively enlarged. In the interests safe side. This begins with the small difference between of minimizing effort, it is often advantageous only for MTTF and MTTF : what proportion of failures of a certain D safety-related components to be considered in the ana- component are dangerous? All conceivable failure modes lysis, i.e. components the failure of which could have an can be listed in a complex FMEA, evaluated as either indirect or direct negative influence upon performance “safe” or “dangerous”, and the fraction of their occur- of the safety function. For simplification purposes, fault rence estimated. Since the effects of a component failure exclusions are possible in addition; these take account upon the block determine whether the failure mode is of the fact that certain failures are extremely improbable safe or dangerous, detailed analyses of the effect caused and their contribution to the overall reliability negligibly by a failure may be necessary. A greater number of failure small. The assumption of fault exclusions is however modes may then prove to be “safe” than is the case with a subject to certain conditions; these are set out in detail simplified assessment, as proposed by EN ISO 13849-1: if in EN ISO 13849-2 and described more comprehensively the parts count method is used, its conservative approach in subclause 6.2.10. Conductor short circuits or certain assumes that overall, the safe and dangerous failures are mechanical failures can for example be excluded on the similar in number. In the absence of more detailed infor- basis of the design, provided certain conditions are met. mation, the MTTF is therefore always assumed with this D method to be double the MTTF. 6.2.12 Data sources for individual components Once again, the principle is that of the statistical mean, One of the questions most frequently posed in this con- i.e. an excessively favourable evaluation of one compo- text concerns the sourcing of reliable failure data for the nent is cancelled out by an overly pessimistic evaluation safety-related components. The manufacturer, and for of another. It is quite possible for the parts count method example his technical data sheet, should be given prefe- and an FMEA to be combined. Where the values produced rence here over all other sources. Many manufacturers, by a parts count alone yield a sufficiently low PFH, an for example of electromechanical or pneumatic com- FMEA need not be performed. Should this not be the case, ponents, now make such information available. Where however, a study of the failure modes is advantageous, data are not available from the manufacturer, typical for example by means of a partial FMEA, particularly on example values can still be obtained from established the components exhibiting poorer MTTF values. Further D databases (see Annex D). Such sources do not generally explanations of this subject can be found in Annex B. distinguish between dangerous and safe failures; it can however be assumed as a general