– Part 4-1: Contactors and motor-starters – Elec- D mining the PL with the aid of the bar chart. For this issue, tromechanical contactors and motor-starters (2009) too, EN ISO 13849-1 has the answer in the form of a simple + A1 (2012). formula: 282 Annex D [6] DGUV Information 203-079: Auswahl und Anbrin- [9] SISTEMA Cookbook 4: When the designated gung von Verriegelungseinrichtungen. Published by: architectures don't match. Published by: Deutsche Deutsche Gesetzliche Unfallversicherung (DGUV), Gesetzliche Unfallversicherung e.V. (DGUV), Berlin, Berlin, Germany. August 2014 – updated edition Germany 2015. www.dguv.de/ifa, Webcode: e109249 December 2015. http://publikationen.dguv.de/ dguv/udt_dguv_main.aspx?FDOCUID=26231 [10] Goble, W. M.: Control systems safety evaluation and reliability. 3rd ed. Published by: The International [7] Principles of testing and certification for interlocking Society of Automation (ISA), Research Triangle Park, devices with solenoid guard-locking, Principles of North Carolina 2010, www.isa.org testing GS-ET-19E. Published by: DGUV Test, Prüf- und Zertifizierungsstelle Elektrotechnik, May 2015. www.bgetem.de, Webcode: 12700341 [8] Principles of testing and certification for electro- mechanical enabling switches and enabling devices with and without start-up controllers, Principles of testing GS-ET-22E. Published by: DGUV Test, Prüf- und Zertifizierungsstelle Elek trotechnik, July 2016. www.bgetem.de, Webcode: 12700341 283 284 Annex E: Determining of the diagnostic coverage (DC) Figure E.1: Changes with respect to the second edition Illustration of the diagnostic coverage (BGIA Report 2/2008e): ∑ λ DU • Reference inserted to possible reduction of the DC by DD DC = cascading, e.g. of electromechanical position switches DD S ∑(λ +λ ) • Two DC measures deleted from Table E.2: redundant DD DU shut-off path without monitoring of the actuator, and redundant shut-off path with monitoring of one of the actuators by either logic or the test equipment may also be detectable or undetectable; the distinction • Figure E.3 amended is irrelevant, however, since the safe state is assumed in • Conditions amended for the simplified method in both cases. Category 2 (testing upon demand as an alternative to testing 100 times as frequently as demand; test chan- The diagnostic coverage (DC) is determined by the pro- nel at least half as reliable as the functional channel, portion of detectable dangerous failures (DD) among all instead of MTTF ≥ 0.5 · MTTF ) dangerous failures (D), and is generally stated as a per- D,L D,TE • Examples inserted from the standard concerning fault centage. For calculation of the DC, for example in conjunc- detection in the process tion with an FMEA (failure mode and effects analysis, see Annex B), the ratio is calculated of the totals of the failure rates λ and λ of the unit under consideration. The DC is DD D The diagnostic coverage DC is a measure of the effec- seen here to be a value relating to the tested unit (e.g. the tiveness of a control system's self-test and monitoring block) and not to the test equipment. In order to simplify measures. It may relate to individual components, blocks, calculation of the DC, EN ISO 13849-1 offers an alternative or entire subsystems (DC ). The precise definition of the solution to the FMEA: it proposes DC key values for typi- avg DC is based upon the division of failures into three groups cal diagnostics measures, the attainment of which may (see Figure E.1): be assumed when the relevant measure is implemented correctly. In this way, evaluation from tables of the dia- • Safe (S) failures: these failures automatically result in gnostics measures implemented per unit is sufficient. a safe state being assumed that does not give rise to A similar procedure is frequently used by test bodies as any hazards (example: a contactor remaining open or standard and economic practice. a valve remaining closed, resulting in interruption of energy and consequently stopping of potentially hazar- Since the proportion of dangerous undetectable failures dous movements). (i.e. 1 – DC) is the relevant value for the probability of failure for evaluation of the implemented test and moni- • Dangerous detectable (DD) failures: these potentially toring measures, selection of the key values (60, 90 and dangerous failures are detected by test or monitoring 99%) for formation of the four DC quality stages (Table E.1) measures and transferred to a safe state (example: fail- is self-explanatory. ure of a contactor to open or of a valve to close, which is detected by a readback contact or position monitor, and Table E.1: handled safely). The four levels of diagnostic coverage in accordance with the simplified approach of EN ISO 13849-1 • Dangerous undetectable (DU) failures: these potentially dangerous failures are not detected (example: undetec- DC (level of diagnostic coverage) ted failure of a contactor to open or of a valve to close, Description Range as a result of which a demand for a safe torque off does None DC < 60% not result in stopping of a hazardous movement). Low 60% ≤ DC < 90% Medium 90% ≤ DC < 99% On multi-channel systems, the term “dangerous failure” High 99% ≤ DC is used with regard to a single channel, although a dange- rous system failure need not necessarily yet have occur- red. The failures “DD” and “DU” can be combined to form the group of dangerous failures (D). The safe failures 285 Annex E A fundamental distinction must be drawn between the Table E.2 shows typical test and monitoring measures for DC of an individual test for a certain component or block, components (usually elements or blocks), and Ce texte met en évi- la relación de la norma con los requisitos básicos de dence le lien entre la norme et les exigences essentielles seguridad de la directiva de maquinaria y se presentan de sécurité de la directive Machines, et présente des los posibles procedimientos de estimación del riesgo. procédures possibles permettant d’évaluer les risques. Sobre la base de estas informaciones, el informe permite Sur la base de ces informations, le rapport permet de seleccionar el nivel de prestaciones requerido (required sélectionner le niveau de performance PL nécessaire performance level PL) para las funciones de seguridad r r pour