consideration. If however the form of B.2.1 Performance of an FMEA for quantifica- one of the “designated architectures” in accordance with tion subclauses 6.2.3 to 6.2.7 can be identified formally from the safety-related block diagram, as in the example in The essential procedure employed for an FMEA for quanti- Figure B.1, the method in this standard referred to above fication is demonstrated below with reference to the “light can be applied for quantitative calculation of the PL. barrier” function block from Figure B.2. S1 X1.4 Test X1.5 + R1 R3 C1 R7 P1 K1 R2 R5 K2 K3 R9 X1.2 P2 V Figure B.2: X1.3 R4 R6 R8 Assumed circuit (simple X1.1 example) of the “light - barrier” function block from the safety-related block diagram from “Light barrier” function block Figure B.1 For this purpose, the circuit has deliberately been kept the function block within the system in accordance with simple. Only components framed by the dashed line Figure B.1. As long as the phototransistor K1 continues belong to the function block. The elements S1 and P2 to receive light from the infrared LED P1, it maintains the constitute a substitute circuit for the actual inclusion of transistor K2 blocked, as a result of which the transistor 225533 Annex B K3 is conductive and a positive output voltage, which can block to performance of the safety function: “safe torque be measured by the voltmeter P2, is present on terminal off when the light beam is interrupted”. X1.2. If the light beam is interrupted, K1 blocks, K2 beco- mes conductive and K3 switches off the output voltage. The dangerous failure mode of the function block can thus The test of the “light barrier” function block, which is per- be described as “presence of an output voltage greater formed by the microcontroller control system in Figure B.1 than zero during non-illumination of the phototransistor in accordance with the program, can be simulated by the K1”. pushbutton S1 and the voltmeter P2: the light source P1 is switched off temporarily and the output voltage ob served B.2.3 Component failure rates for whether it drops to 0 V as intended. The signal-pro- cessing elements of the “light barrier” function block (K1 Component failure rates may be obtained from a num- to K3, R2 to R9, C1) are required to behave in the same ber of sources. Examples for electronic components are way as in response to a “real” demand of the safety func- listed in [3 to 6]. These sources all contain generic data tion caused by interruption of the light beam. This test is relevant to multiple manufacturers. Collections of failure described below as “Test 1”. rates also exist for mechanical, pneumatic and hydraulic components. For certain components that are not listed B.2.2 Dangerous failure mode of a function in the relevant indexes (such as special ASICs), the failure block rate must be obtained from the manufacturer. Many com- mon quantification techniques, including the simplified The first step entails identification of the dangerous fail- method in EN ISO 13849-1 subclause 4.5.4, assume a con- ure mode of the function block. Generally, not only may stant failure rate over time. This represents an idealized individual elements fail, but an entire function block view. With appropriate dimensioning and, if necessary, may also fail in various ways as a result. The modes of preventive replacement, components can be prevented failure that are unfavourable from a safety perspective are from reaching the wear phase, during which the failure regarded as the “dangerous” failure mode of a function rate rises sharply, before the end of the mission time T . M block. Some failures cause immediate, dangerous fail- ure of the entire system, with the result that neither the A quick source of generally conservative (pessimistic) original safety function, nor a safety-oriented substitute estimations of failure rates can be found in EN ISO 13849, function can be performed. Other failures increase the Part 1, Annex C. In particular, a method is shown here by probability of this happening in that a smaller number of which failure rates for discrete, cyclically operating elec- further failures is now sufficient to cause the system to fail tromechanical, fluid power and mechanical components dangerously. Should no redundancy exist for the function can be derived from the “B ” values (see Table D.2 of 10D block suffering failure, i.e. no second channel capable of this report). assuming its function, and should diagnostics fail to per- form sufficiently rapidly an action producing a safe state, Should a conservative estimate of the failure rate not be the dangerous failure of the function block leads to dan- chosen, it must be ensured for each component that the gerous failure of the system. However, even when, owing value employed is valid under the conditions of use (tem- to the existence of redundancy or a rapid failure response perature, current, voltage, power dissipation, etc.) in the by other circuit components, none of the possible failure application in question. The inherent heating effect must modes of the function block under analysis causes a also be taken into account. Standard data sources, such dangerous system failure, its “dangerous” failure mode as [3 to 6], provide measures by which the base failure can and must be identified. The dangerous failure mode rates applicable under defined reference conditions can is that leading to the function block no longer making its be converted to values applicable under different condi- intended contribution to safe behaviour of the system. On tions. Suitable conversion formulae (but not base failure occasions it may be necessary for several failure modes rates) can be found in [7]. that are characterized by different but equally harmful block behaviour to be considered (e.g. continuous ener- gization and oscillation on the output). The simplest solu- tion is therefore to describe the dangerous failure mode in terms of the loss of the function block‘s safety-related functionality. Diagnostics features are considered later and will be ignored at this stage. In the example under consideration