252 wear 256 wearing part 257, 297 weaving machine 248 Weibull statistic 271 well-tried component 51, 262 woodworking machine 112 well-tried safety principle 51 324 graph. D taken into account during subsequent calculation of the PFH of the safety function: 5.4.1 Risk graph D • Emergency stop device 03 The diagram in Annex A of the standard leads directly to • Logic the required Performance Level PL and is explained below r • Drive 21 (see Figure 5.9). Further examples of determining of the • Drive 35 PL can be found in Annex A. r • Drive 47 Figure 5.9: Figure 5.8: Risk graph for determining the PL for each safety function r Emergency stop of the entire machine, worst case Required · Low Performance · risk Level PL r · P a Emergency-stop device 01 Drive 21 1 F 1 · Emergency-stop device 02 · Starting S 1 P 2 P 1 b · Emergency-stop device 03 Logic Drive 35 point for F 2 P 1 P 2 c Emergency-stop · device 04 · · · e o r s e f t d t i h m u e c a t r t i i i o s o n k n S 2 F F 2 1 P 2 P 1 d · P e · Drive 47 2 · High · risk · 3 The r (required) suffix indicates that the Performance Level in this case is that required for the safety function (desired value). Validation at a later stage examines whether the PL attained by the actual control system (actual value) is greater than or equal to the PL. In this context, “greater than” means: PL = e > PL = d > PL = c > PL = b > PL = a 32 5 Safety functions and their contribution to risk reduction From the starting-point, the following risk parameters are considered for the duration of the hazard exposure in rela- evaluated4: tion to the overall time for which a machine is in use. • S – severity of injury For a manually charged metalworking press whose ope- rator must reach cyclically between the dies of the press, • F – frequency of and/or duration of exposure to hazard F2 is clearly the appropriate choice. Conversely, for a machining centre that is set up once each year and then • P – possibility of avoiding the hazard or of limiting the operates automatically, F1 will doubtless be selected. For harm evaluation of the frequency and duration of exposure to the hazard, cases in which the same person or different The risk graph thus leads to the necessary PL. This analy- persons are exposed must be treated in the same way. r sis must be performed for each safety function and with- out consideration of the risk reduction that is achieved as P – possibility of avoiding the hazard P1 and P2 a result. Where other technical measures are in place that (parameter P) are implemented independently of the control system, such as a mechanical guard or further safety functions, At this point, an evaluation must be made of whether they can be assumed to be effective for the purpose of recognition and avoidance of a hazardous situation is: determining the PL. r • P1 – possible under specific conditions Severity of injury S1 and S2 • P2 – scarcely possible Generally, the severity of injury (parameter S) in a hazard Aspects relevant to definition of this parameter include zone will be found to vary widely. For the requirements the physical characteristics of a machine, the qualifica- upon the control system however, only the following dis- tions of the operator, and their possible reaction. If, for tinction is relevant: example, the machine must be set up whilst running at limited speed, the parameter P1 will be the correct choice • S1 – slight (normally reversible injury) at the low acceleration values for setup: with the slow emergence of the hazards and given sufficient freedom • S2 – serious (normally irreversible injury or death) of movement, the operator will be able to move out of the hazard zone. Conversely, P2 must be selected when The usual consequences of accidents and the normal higher speeds may rapidly be reached and the operator healing processes must be taken into account for deter- has no realistic chance of evading an accident. During this mining between S1 and S2. evaluation, consideration should be given only to hazard limitation by physically possible means, and not to limi- Frequency of and/or exposure to the hazard F1 and F2 tation by control components, since the latter could fail (parameter F) in the event of a fault. For example, rollers moving in the direction of the operator‘s hand cannot entrap it under The frequency of and/or exposure to the hazard are eva- fault-free conditions. In the event of a control-system luated as: fault, however, the direction of rotation could be rever- sed, and under worst-case conditions, the hand would be • F1 – seldom to less often, and/or exposure time is short drawn in. • F2 – frequent to continuous, and/or exposure time is A further factor influencing determining of the PL is the r long probability of the occurrence of a hazardous event ([3], 5.5.2.3.2). Human behaviour and technical failure may be Consideration is therefore given both to the number of factors in this context. Both are difficult to estimate nume- interventions in the danger zone within a period and to rically. The standard states the following example criteria the duration of presence within it. The standard assists however: decision-making by stating that where operator interven- tions occur more frequently than once every 15 minutes, • Reliability data F2 should be selected. In all other cases, F1 is the cor- • History of accidents on comparable machines rect choice, provided the duration of hazard exposure does not exceed 1/20 of the total operation time of the machine. During evaluation, an average value