in control systems and/or safeguards. 50 6 Design of safe control systems For components that satisfy Category B, no further special The well-tried property of a component is dependent upon safety measures are required. The MTTF of each chan- its application, and indicates only that a dangerous failure D nel may therefore be low or medium (see below for the is improbable. It follows that the anticipated dangerous definition of “low” and “medium”). Should a component failure rate is greater than zero, and is considered in the failure occur, it may lead to loss of the safety function. form of the MTTF during calculation of the PL. Conversely, D No monitoring measures, including DC , are required. the assumption of a fault exclusion (see subclause 6.2.10) avg Common cause failures are also not relevant on single- gives rise to assumption of an “infinitely high” MTTF that D channel control systems; no requirements therefore exist is not considered in the calculation. with regard to CCF. Owing to the expected higher component reliability, the Owing to this very rudimentary resistance to failure, the MTTF of the single channel in Category 1 must be high; as D maximum attainable PL of Category B systems is limited in Category B, however, no requirements are placed upon to PL b. the DC and CCF. The occurrence of a fault can lead to the avg loss of the safety function. The MTTF of the channel in D The designated architecture for Category B in Figure 6.5 Category 1 is however greater than that in Category B. In corresponds to a single-channel system with input (I), consequence, loss of the safety function is less probable, logic (L) and output (O) levels. and the maximum PL that can be attained with Category 1 is PL c. Figure 6.5: Designated architecture for Category B and Category 1 The designated architecture for Category 1 is the same as for Category B (see Figure 6.5), since the differences lie in the component reliability and not in the structure. II LL OO EiInngpauntg LLooggiick AOuustgpauntg 6.2.5 Category 2 Interconnection In addition to the requirements for Category B (e.g. the application of basic safety principles), Category 2 SRP/CS 6.2.4 Category 1 must employ well-tried safety principles and be designed such that their safety functions are tested at reasonable In addition to satisfying the requirements for Category B, intervals, for example by the machine control system. The for example the application of basic safety principles, safety function(s) must be tested: Category 1 SRP/CS must be designed and constructed using well-tried components and well-tried safety prin- • at start-up of the machine, and ciples. • prior to initiation of any hazardous situation, e.g. the A well-tried component for a safety-related application is start of a new cycle, start of other movements, as soon a component that has been either as the safety function is required, and/or periodically during operation, where the risk assessment and the • widely used in the past with successful results in similar form of operation indicate that this is necessary. applications, or These tests can be initiated automatically. Each test of the • made and verified using principles that demonstrate its safety function(s) must either: suitability and reliability for safety-related applications. • permit operation, if no faults have been detected, or Annex C provides an overview of known components employing a range of technologies that are well-tried for • should a fault have been detected, generate an output safety applications. for the initiation of appropriate control action (OTE). Newly developed components and safety principles may As a general rule, and always where PL = d, the output r be considered as equivalent to “well-tried” when they (OTE) must initiate a safe state that is maintained until fulfil the second condition stated above. The decision to the fault has been eliminated. Up to PL = c, when initia- r accept a particular component as well-tried depends on tion of a safe state is not practicable (for example owing the application. Complex electronic components, such as to welding of the contacts of the final switching device), programmable logic controllers (PLCs), microprocessors a sufficient alternative may be for the output of the test or application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) cannot equipment (OTE) to provide only a warning. generally be considered as equivalent to “well-tried”. 51 6 Design of safe control systems For the designated architecture of Category 2 (Figure 6.6), attain in practice with external test equipment, undetec- calculation of the MTTF and DC considers only the ted first faults may result in loss of the safety function. For D avg blocks of the functional channel (i.e. I, L and O). When the these reasons, the maximum PL that can be attained with simplified method in the standard is used, the MTTF of Category 2 is limited to PL d. D the blocks of the test channel (i.e. TE and OTE) is consi- dered indirectly, since this method requires the MTTF of Interpretation of the requirements for a Category 2 pre- D the test channel to be at least half the MTTF of the func- sents certain difficulties that can sometimes only be deci- D tional channel. Values from “low” to “high” are permitted ded on a case-by-case basis. The following recommenda- for the MTTF of the functional channel. The DC must be tions can be made in this respect: D avg at least “low”. Adequate measures against CCF must also be applied (see subclause 6.2.15 and Annex F). • The standard requires testing of the safety function. Should this not be possible for all components, Cate- Figure 6.6: gory 2 cannot be applied (Note 1 in EN ISO 13849-1:2015, Designated architecture for Category 2; dashed lines indicate subclause 6.2.5). It thus follows that all components of reasonably practicable fault detection the functional channel must be tested. The functional channel encompasses all components that can cause failure of the safety function by at least one failure II LL OO mode. The standard specifies at least