of actuations per year n (stated in op times are subjected to endurance testing. The maximum cycles per year) serves as the conversion factor for this rate of operations for the endurance test is determined purpose. It is based upon the following parameters, which from the pressure build-up (attainment of 90% of the test must be estimated for the anticipated application (if pressure) and the pressure dissipation (attainment of appropriate, the worst-case scenario): 10% of the test pressure) in a connected volume that is defined according to the port cross-subclauses. At least 272 Annex D • h → Mean operation in hours per day however, the onset of the wear phase results in strong op variation. • d → Mean operation in days per year op Formula (D.3) is derived from the condition • t → Mean operation time between the beginning cycle of two successive cycles of the component F(T ) = 1 – exp(– λ · T ) = 10% 10D D 10D (e.g. switching of a valve) in seconds (s) per cycle. for the exponential distribution forming the approxi- mation, where λ represents the “substitute failure D The n (in cycles per year) can be determined from these rate” referred to above. Reformulation produces op parameters as follows: λ = –ln(0.9)/T . Since ln(0.9) approximates closely to D 10D 0.1 and MTTF = 1/λ , the result is finally MTTF ≈ T /0.1. D D D 10D d · h s op op n = (cid:31)· 3,600 (D.5) D.2.5 Good engineering practice methods op t h cycle The second step in the approximation hidden in the for- Should no component reliability data be available from mula (D.3) consists of the assumption of a “substitute the manufacturer, the standard proposes the use of failure rate” constant over time for the actual failure rate, values listed within it as the first alternative. It provides of which wear is the dominant cause. This approximation, support in the form of typical values for mechanical, however, yields a result of adequate quality only up to hydraulic and pneumatic components and for electro- attainment of the T value (which equates in “cycles” to mechanical safety components frequently used in 10D the B value). practice. These values are listed as MTTF values or B 10D D 10D values in Table D.2. The B value, which is obtained by 10D This part of the approximation is illustrated in Figure D.3. the component manufacturer by testing, indicates the The unbroken curve represents the original Weibull distri- average number of cycles at which 10% of the compo- bution with an assumed shape factor of b = 3. In the parti- nents have failed dangerously. This value can be used to cular case where b = 1, the Weibull distribution transitions estimate the MTTF value. A number of conditions must D to an exponential distribution that is characterized by a however be met when the values in Table D.2 are used: constant failure rate over time. The dashed line now refers to the exponential distribution corresponding to the “sub- • The manufacturer of the component confirms that basic stitute failure rate”, constant over time, which is equal safety principles to EN ISO 13849-1:2012 or the relevant to the reciprocal of the MTTF value obtained by means standard (see Table D.2) were applied during design of D of the formula (D.3). The MTTF obtained by this means the component (confirmation on the data sheet for the D ensures that the exponential distribution shown by the component). dashed line intersects the original Weibull distribution at the point (t = T ; F = 10%). The point at which 10% of • The manufacturer of a component that is to be used in 10D D the components under analysis have failed dangerously a Category 1, 2, 3 or 4 control system confirms that well- is therefore reached by both distributions following elap- tried safety principles to EN ISO 13849-1:2012 or the sing of T . From Figure D.3, it can be seen that the actual relevant standard (see Table D.2) were applied during 10D fail ure rate prior to attainment of the wear phase is very the design of the component (confirmation on the data low, and remains below the approximated exponential sheet for the component). distribution up to point T . This approximation is there- 10D fore conservative (on the safe side). The importance of • The manufacturer of the component specifies the sui- limiting the mission time to T is also evident: above this table application and operating conditions for the 10D value, the proportion of dangerous failures which may SRP/CS designer and the user and informs them of actually be expected rises significantly over time when their responsibility to satisfy the basic safety principles compared to the exponential substitute function. The to EN ISO 13849-1:2012 during implementation and validity of the approximation based upon the substitute operation of the component. failure rate constant over time can be extended by preven- tive re placement of the affected component when the T • The designer of the SRP/CS and the user satisfy 10D value is reached. the basic and/or well-tried safety principles to EN ISO 13849-1:2012 for implementation and operation In the lower part of Figure D.3, it can be seen clearly that of the component. the selected “substitute failure rate” λ = 1/MTTF of the D D exponential approximation corresponds approximately Compliance with these requirements is to ensure that the to the arithmetic mean of the failure rate which may actu- application of basic and/or well-tried safety principles ally be expected up to the point in time T . Beyond T is assured from manufacture, through implementation, 10D 10D 273 Annex D to routine operation of the component. The interface This topic will therefore be discussed separately in detail between the manufacturer, the designer of the SRP/CS in subclauses D.2.5.1 to D.2.5.6 below. and the user of the machine (operating party) is clearly defined: the manufacturer must provide binding