must be considered whether the intended safety- related functionality of the component is retained (harmless fault) or fails (dangerous fault). A dangerous fault exists for example for contactor Q2 in Example 1 (Figure 3) when the safety door is opened but Q2 fails to drop out because its contacts have welded. Should no dangerous faults whatsoever need to be assumed for the component, no value exists for calculation of the PFH of the safety function. It need not be considered in the safety-related block diagram. Further presentation of the safety function can however be constructive, since it may be conducive to an understanding of it. In this case, the block is treated as an encapsulated subsystem ("fault exclusion" is then subsequently ticked in SISTEMA, and further entries are not required). Step 5: Is the safety function retained in the event of component faults? The dangerous faults to be assumed for the component in the block under analysis are determined in Step 4. Their effects upon the safety function are now considered. SISTEMA Cookbook (Version 1.0) - 11 - 3 From the schematic circuit diagram to the safety-related block diagram Figure 5: Flow chart of structural analysis with reference to the examples from Chapter 2: SF = safety function SISTEMA Cookbook (Version 1.0) - 12 - 3 From the schematic circuit diagram to the safety-related block diagram Step 5a: Adding the redundant functional channel of the block(s) If the safety function is maintained by one or more redundant components in the event of a fault in the block under analysis (i.e. a second functional channel is present), these compo- nents are presented as blocks in a second functional channel (refer to the example in Table 1: Categories 3 and 4). In Example 1 (Figure 3), this applies to both B1 and Q2. The redundant functional channel B2-K1-Q1 is therefore added to both blocks. Note: The components of the redundant functional channel are thus used several times. This is a result of the phased procedure and should not be a hindrance at this stage. Blocks of which multiple instances exist are grouped together again in Step 8. If redundant components have been entered, a major basic criterion for Categories 3 and 4 has been met. A single fault in a component of the first or second functional channel must not result in loss of the safety function (single-fault tolerance). Note: In addition, Category 3 requires that, wherever reasonably possible, individual faults in components within the two functional channels should be detected. Step 5b: Is the safety function retained in the event of an accumulation of undetected faults? For the block under analysis here and its redundant functional channel, single-fault tolerance has been identified up to this point and Category 3 is satisfied. Are the criteria for Category 4 also met? For this purpose, the behaviour in the event of undetected faults occurring must be studied. If the safety function is retained in the event of an accumulation of two undetected faults, the subsystem satisfies Category 4. If the safety function is not retained at the second undetected fault, the subsystem satisfies Category 3. In Example 1 (Figure 3), PLC K1 could actuate outputs O1.0 and O1.1 continuously in the event of a fault. Q1 would be continually energized in this case. Even if the PLC were able to detect this fault by reading back of the monitoring contacts, it would not be able to bring about the safe state. Should a second fault then cause the contacts of Q2 to weld, the motor would continue to run even with the protective equipment open; the safety function has failed, and Category 4 is not met. Note: In Category 4, single-fault tolerance must be satisfied and the discrete fault in a com- ponent in the first or second functional channel must be detected at or before the next demand upon the safety function. If detection in this way is not possible, an accumu- lation of two undetected faults must not lead to loss of the safety function. Step 6: Are component faults detected? At this point, it is clear that there is no redundancy and that consequently neither Category 3 nor Category 4 is met. If failure of a block in a test channel is detected by a test channel and the safe state is brought about, the subsystem satisfies Category 2. In Example 2 (Figure 4), tripping of B0 causes controlled stopping of the motor by T1/G1 within 1/3 of a rotation. Testing is in response to a demand by K1 prompted by manual actua- tion of B0 and measurement of the stopping angle by K1/G2. In the event of a fault, the safe state is brought about via Q1. The test detects faults in B0 and T1/G1.