safety func- D quate for the application, even though it may be that tion in its own right, SF1 to SF5, which is composed of the only drives 1 and 3 initiate hazardous movements at the following blocks: instantaneous location of the operator, and the remaining drives are halted purely “functionally”. In this case, it is • Position monitoring of the guard door x (x = 1, 2, ... 5), recommended that only the movements actually presen- including mechanical components ting a hazard be considered for the purposes of the safety function, and that the safety function be reformulated in a more complex 10D me thod of calculation is required. The essential modelling • In the second case, the SRP/CS was originally designed method is explained below with reference to the example for a mission time of 20 years, but is now to be used of the "designated architecture" for Category 2. This struc- beyond this duration. The deterioration in the PFH ture is shown again in Figure G.2. D Triggering of Readback of test of I test response of O 297 fo foorP noitarepo I L O TE OTE Figure G.2: Designated architecture for Category 2 to EN ISO 13849-1, subclause 6.2.5 Annex G Five function blocks are present, of which the blocks I the left-hand side. Of the 32 failure combinations, those (input), L (logic) and O (output) execute the safety func- in which the system has failed dangerously and undetec- tion proper in a logical series arrangement. Block L tests tably (to itself) are grouped together for simplification of blocks I, O and itself in conjunction with the function the model. This collective state, denoted “System DU” block TE (test equipment). The function block OTE (output (dangerous undetectable), is shown on the right. It can be of TE) is capable of initiating a safe state in the event of attained from several states as a consequence of the fail- failure of the main I-L-O channel. The additional function ure of function blocks. The “Hazardous situation/harm” blocks TE and OTE, which are not directly essential to the state can be seen at the bottom of Figure G.3. This state is function, thus constitute a form of substitute channel attained if and only if a demand is made upon the safety for the fault case. Unlike a “true” second channel, this function from within dangerous previous states (shown sub stitute channel becomes active only when faults are in grey). Like the “Operating inhibition” state, this state detected in the main channel. is also transitioned to the OK state by repair. Further tran- sition arrows, for example from “OK” to “System DU”, are The state graph in Figure G.3 can be derived from the the result of simultaneous, common cause failure (CCF) of safety-related block diagram in Figure G.2. To this end, all multiple function blocks. It is assumed in 2% of the dan- 25 = 32 failure combinations of the five function blocks gerous failures of either of the function blocks L and TE, are first formed. The state without failure is the OK state the other of the two blocks fails dangerously for the same shown above. It is followed by a series of states in which reason. The same is assumed for the function blocks O only one function block has failed, then by a series in and OTE. which two blocks have failed, and so on. The denotation of the states consists of the names of each failed function All arrows are assigned to transition rates the dimension block followed by “D”, indicating that the block concerned of which is determined by the transition processes con- has failed dangerously (i.e. unfavourably in safety terms). cerned (failures, tests, demands, repairs). Consideration Failures of function blocks cause consequential states to of common cause failures (CCFs) at different points also be reached, indicated here by arrows. States in which the results in a change in the original transition rate. For the system is no longer capable of performing the safety func- purpose of calculation of the bar chart, the worse case is tion are shown in grey. In cases where the failure can be assumed in which the test equipment employed in the detected and a safe response is therefore possible, a tran- system is itself not tested. For this reason, a rate of zero is sition exists to the “Operating inhibition” state shown on assigned to some transitions in Figure G.3. OK I D TE D L D O D OTE D I D I D I D I D TE D L D TE D L D O D OTE D OTE D O D I D I D Figure G.3: TE D L D OTE D O D State graph of the Markov model for the Category 2 designated archi- tecture for determi- ning of the PFH D 298 noitibihni noitarepO UD metsyS Hazardous situation/harm Systems that do test their test equipment are therefore state residence periods that are distributed exponentially, estimated erring on the safe side. For the purpose of sim- even though this holds true, strictly speaking, only for the plified calculation by means of the Markov method, it is constant-rate random failures. Separate considerations assumed that all transition processes are characterized by justify this simplification. Annex G It is assumed that at the beginning of the mission time, Annex K of the standard contains the content of Figure G.1 the probability of the system being in the OK state is 1 in numerical form in Table K.1. Table K.1 can be used to and the probability of all other possible system states is determine the Performance Level more precisely than 0. During the assumed mission time of 20 years, all state is possible by means of the figure; this is particularly probabilities gradually change: beginning at the OK state, useful when the PFH contributions of several cascaded D they are redistributed along the transition arrows. The subsystems require summation. Conversely, the bar chart