this process nels are not therefore considered in EN ISO 13849-1. of determination are stated; the method by which the SISTEMA Cookbook 4 [32] provides support in some of probability of failure is actually determined from them these cases: “When the designated architectures don't is however at the user's discretion. Any validated and match”. In addition to the “horizontal” division into dif- recognized method can be used for this purpose. Such ferent functional or test channels, a “vertical” division methods include reliability block diagrams, fault tree into a sensor level (input devices, “I”), a processing level analysis, Markov modelling or Petri nets. Depending upon (logic, “L”) and an actuator level (output devices, “O”) is who determines the probability of failure, i.e. the manu- generally also advantageous. facturer of the control system, the user of the machine, or a test body, preferences for and experience with different Continuity is assured, fully intentionally, to the Categories methods may differ. For this reason, any suitable method set out in EN 954-1, which are established in the machine is explicitly permitted in this context. construction industry and in the associated standards. In accordance with this system, EN 954-1 defines five At the same time, parties lacking prior experience in structures as Categories. EN ISO 13849-1 supplements quantification of the probability of failure require some the former Category definition slightly with quantitative degree of support in the use of EN ISO 13849-1. This requirements for the component reliability (MTTF ), the D need was addressed by the development of a simplified diagnostic coverage of tests (DC ) and the resistance avg approach which, whilst being based upon sound scien- to common cause failures (CCF). In addition, it maps the tific principles (Markov modelling), describes a simple Categories to five basic structural types, termed “desig- method for quantification in successive steps. At certain nated architectures”. The same Categories may still take points, the description makes estimates erring on the different structural forms; the generalization which their safe side which could result in a higher figure for the pro- mapping to the associated designated architecture repre- bability of failure being estimated than that yielded by sents is still permissible as an approximation within the 48 6 Design of safe control systems simplified approach, however. The number of “vertical” 3 and 4, the occurrence of a single fault does not result blocks (input, logic, output) in a channel is for example in loss of the safety function. In Category 4, and where generally of little relevance to determination of the PL reasonably practicable also in Category 3, such faults are from a mathematical and safety technology perspective. detected automatically. In addition, the resistance to an accumulation of undetected faults is also assured in Cate- Where more complex safety functions are involved, it may gory 4. no longer be possible to map the entire safety chain to any single one of the five basic types. In this case, the Consideration of the faults must include an assessment of solution is generally for the safety chain to be broken what component faults may be assumed, and what faults down into several subclauses (“subsystems”), each of may (with reasoning) be excluded. Information on the which can be mapped to a particular designated architec- faults to be considered is provided in Annex C. ture. The method by which these subsystems are then recomposed and an overall value determined from the In Categories 3 and 4, common cause failures capable of individual Performance Levels is explained in greater causing simultaneous failure of more than one channel detail in subclause 6.4. The following information relates must also be adequately controlled. The same applies to to control systems (SRP/CS) that can be assigned to a Category 2, since the test equipment and its dedicated Category without being broken down into subsystems. It shut-off path also constitute a second channel. Essen- can however be applied by analogy to subsystems that tially, it can be said that many of the basic and well-tried perform only a part of a safety function. safety principles are effective not only against random hardware failures, but also against systematic faults that 6.2.2 ... and Categories may creep into the product at some point in the product life cycle, e.g. faults arising during product design or The Categories classify safety-related parts of a control modification. system (SRP/CS) with respect to their resistance to faults and their subsequent behaviour in the fault condition, 6.2.3 Category B based upon the reliability of the parts and/or their struc- tural arrangement (see Table 6.2, see Page 50). A higher The SRP/CS must be designed, constructed, selected, resistance to faults translates into a greater possible risk assembled and combined for the intended application in reduction. For definition of the probability of failure and accordance with the relevant standards with application of the PL, the Categories therefore form the backbone, of the basic safety principles in such a way that they can complemented by the component reliability (MTTF ), the resist: D tests (DC ), and the resistance to common cause failures avg (CCF). • The expected operating stresses (e.g. reliability with respect to breaking capacity and frequency) Category B is the basic Category, the requirements of which must also be met in all other Categories. In Catego- • The influence of the processed material (e.g. aggressive ries B and 1, the resistance to faults is attained primarily chemical substances, dusts, chips) by the selection and use of suitable components. The safety function may be rendered ineffective by the occur- • Other relevant external influences (e.g. mechanical rence of a fault. Category 1 has a greater resistance to vibration, electromagnetic interference, interruptions or faults than Category B owing to the use of special compo- disturbances in the power supply) nents and principles that are well-tried for safety applica- tions. With regard to electromagnetic compatibility (EMC), the standard refers to particular requirements stated in In Categories 2, 3 and 4, superior performance in terms of the relevant product standards,