“1” is therefore For this case, calculation of the B value by means of assigned to these elements. The situation is different for 10D the formula B = B /RDF is sometimes recommended. the capacitor C1, which has the function of suppressing 10D 10 RDF (ratio of dangerous failure) represents the fraction frequent but not continuous electromagnetic interference of the overall failure rate of an element that can result in (note: this is assumed for the purpose of this example). a dangerous failure. EN ISO 13849-1, Annex C.4.2, Foot- Drift failures (limited changes in capacitance) are not note 2 also follows this approach with RDF = 0.5. This critical; a short-circuit, however, results in the output (ter- method of calculation is however based upon simplified minal X1.2) being incapable of being de-energized (dan- assumptions that may differ considerably from the actual gerous failure mode of the function block). A short-circuit conditions for the wearing parts under analysis here. For on C1 is detected by Test 1. In the event of an open circuit this reason, B should be limited to twice the value of B on C1, the electromagnetic interference is transported via 10D 10 when B is determined by means of the quotient B /RDF. K2 and K3 to the output of the function block. It is un clear 10D 10 Owing to the relationship in formula C.3 in EN ISO 13849- how the downstream circuit will interpret this high-fre- 1, Annex C.4.2, the method for determining the B also quen cy alternating signal, and also whether the distur- 10D has an impact upon the permissible component operation bance phenomenon is present during the test. In the time T and thus possibly also upon replacement inter- worst case, the non-suppressed interference results in the 10D vals to be specified for the component. output signal with superimposed disturbance not being interpreted by the downstream circuit as a demand of the The next step in the method entails consideration for safety function, despite phototransistor K1 not being illu- diagnostics. Only diagnostics relating to dangerous-mode minated (= dangerous failure of the “light barrier” func- failures (of the function block) are considered. Conside- tion block). Should the fault not be present at the time ration for whether a test or where applicable several tests of the test, Test 1 is not able to detect the capacitor open are capable of detecting some or all of these failures need circuit. Since no reliable information on the failure-type therefore be given only for components that exhibit a distribution is available for the capacitor, it is assumed portion of dangerous-mode failures. The relevant effective that – when the non-critical drift failures are disregarded test, and the diagnostic coverage DC for the components – short circuits and open circuits each account for 50% of indicating the detectable portion of dangerous-mode the failures. Both failure types lead to a dangerous failure failures, are entered in appropriate columns. Where the of the function block; only short-circuiting of the capa- components concerned are discrete components as in the citor, i.e. (an estimated) half of all dangerous capacitor example shown in Figure B.2, one of the two DC values failures, are however reliably detectable. The component- “0” for “undetectable” or “1” for “detectable” can often related diagnostic coverage is thus estimated at 50% or be assigned to the dangerous failure of a single compo- 0.5. The printed circuit board and its solder joints can nent. In the case of complex integrated components and introduce short circuits and open circuits into the circuit of discrete components the failure of which is capable of at various points. The pragmatic approach, implemented impairing the function of such a complex component, the in Figure B.3, for estimation of the DC value for the sol- component-related DC must be estimated in considera- der joints and printed circuit board consists in assigning tion both of the dangerous failure mode and of the availa- the average DC value to them that is produced for all ble test method. Support in this assessment is provided other components of the function block from the formula by Table E.2, in which DC values of 0% (“none”), 60% DC = Σ λ /Σ λ . The inclusion of the printed circuit board DD D (“low”), 90% (“medium”) and 99% (“high”) are assigned and solder joints thus has no influence upon the DC value for standard test methods. During assignment of a DC to a calculated for the complete function block. component, it must also be considered that an evaluation result of “detectable” is permissible only if the system is In each row of the table, i.e. for each component: actually capable of performing the intended safety-orien- ted operation. Detection of a failure within a circuit, for λ = temperature factor · base failure rate (if applicable example, is useless if it is rendered ineffective owing to a with further correction factors, see above) shut-off path that has already failed. λ = proportion of safe failures ⋅ λ S In the example shown, the components R1, R6 to R9 and P1 do not need to be considered with regard to the aspect λ = proportion of dangerous failures ⋅ λ D of diagnostics, since they are not capable of causing dan- gerous-mode failure of the “light barrier” function block. λ = DC ⋅ λ DD D The dangerous-mode failure portion of each of these 257 Annex B λ = (1 – DC) ⋅ λ circuit can be transferred to other technologies. It can DU D therefore be applied formally in the same manner for These λ values are summed by column in the table. The example to mechanical, hydraulic and pneumatic sys- sum λ and the sums λ and λ yield the MTTF , i.e. the tems. D D DD D mean time to a dangerous failure of the function block, and the DC of the function block respectively: References MTTF = 1/λ [1] Goble, W. M.: Control Systems Safety Evaluation and D