negated. It is • The list of measures against CCF was focused upon therefore important that this source of faults be elimina- the relevant solutions, primarily technical in nature, in ted as far as possible. The triggers of CCFs may be physical machine safety. in nature, such as overtemperature or strong electromag- netic interference, or systematic, such as defective circuit • A single target value with a maximum of 2% was selec- design or programming errors where identical software is ted instead of several possible β values. The target employed for both channels. value can only be either attained or not attained. The simplified method to EN ISO 13849-1 for determining A common strategy for quantification of a control system's the Performance Level is based upon an assumed beta susceptibility to CCF is the beta-factor model. This stra- factor of 2%. tegy assumes that a certain proportion of the dangerous failures in one channel share the same cause as dange- • The mathematical rules for the points system were rous failures in the second channel. This concept is illus- summarized in two steps: each measure can only be trated in Figure F.1: the dangerous failure rates for the two either satisfied completely (full number of points) or not channels (shown symbolically as elliptical areas) have a satisfied (zero points); no provision is made for propor- CCF overlap, which is shown by the hatching. The propor- tional numbers of points for measures that are not com- tionality factor between the CCF rate and the dangerous pletely satisfied. If measures (such as diversity, use of failure rate of the single channel λ is normally termed β well-tried components) are satisfied completely only in D (common cause factor or beta factor). individual SRP/CS in the form of subsystems, different packages of measures may act against CCF at subsys- Figure F.1: tem level. The minimum number of 65 points must be Illustration of common cause failure (CCF) by means of the beta- reached for the Categories 2, 3 and 4 in order for use of factor model the simplified method for determining the Performance level to be permissible. A maximum of 100 points can be reached. Channel 1 Channel 2 CCF: Common Cause Failure: λ λ The following points must be observed during evaluation D D the same cause leads to failure of both channels of the measures: • The measures must be evaluated with particular consideration for their effectiveness against CCF. For β factor: example, the product standards already require immu- Ratio of CCF rate to failure rate nity to environmental influences and electromagnetic of one channel, interference. Supplementary evaluation must be per- CCF rate = β · λ β·λ D formed of whether these influences have been effec- D tively minimized as sources of common cause failures. It is virtually impossible to calculate the beta factor pre- • The physical counter-measures differ according to the cisely for a specific control system, particularly since this control technology employed: of the environmental should be done at the beginning of the actual design influences, for example, electromagnetic interference is process. IEC 61508-6 [1] employs a points system for this more relevant in the case of electrical control systems, 293 Annex F whereas contamination of the fluid is more relevant in • Assessment/analysis (5 points): a failure mode and the case of fluid control systems. Counter-measures effects analysis has been performed for each part of must therefore be evaluated with consideration for the the SRP/CS, and its results taken into account during technology employed. design for the avoidance of CCF • The tested structure of Category 2 systems constitutes a • Competence/training (5 points): training of designers in special case. In this case, CCF concerns common failure understanding the causes and consequences of CCF of both the functional channel and the test channel. A common cause failure results in the structural benefit • Environmental conditions concerning protection against being negated. The evaluation of the measures must adverse influences upon electrical/electronic and fluid be adjusted accordingly to the particular aspects of the power systems (25 points): Category 2 structure. – Electrical/electronic systems: prevention of • The full number of points may be credited for a measure contamination and electromagnetic disturbances against common cause failures that cannot occur owing (EMC) in accordance with appropriate standards to the inherent characteristics of the control system. – Fluid power systems: filtration of the pressure The measures against common cause failures and the medium, prevention of dirt intake, drainage of associated numbers of points from EN ISO 13849-1 are as compressed air, for example in compliance with the follows: component manufacturer's requirements for purity of the pressure medium • Separation/segregation (15 points): physical separation between the signal paths, e.g.: On combined fluid power and electrical systems, both aspects should be considered. – Separation in wiring/piping • Environmental conditions with regard to other influen- – Detection of short-circuits and open circuits by ces (10 points): consideration of the requirements for dynamic testing immunity to all relevant environmental conditions, such as temperature, shock, vibration, humidity (for example – Separate shielding for the signal path of each as specified in the relevant standards) channel Reference – Sufficient clearances and creepage distances on printed-circuit boards [1] IEC 61508-6: Functional safety of electrical/elec- tronic/programmable electronic safety-related • Diversity (20 points): different technologies/design or systems – Part 6: Guidelines on the application of physical principles are used. Examples include: IEC 61508-2 and IEC 61508-3 (2010) – One channel electronic or programmable electronic, the other electromechanical hard-wired – Different initiation of the safety function for each channel, for example by means of position, pressure or temperature – Digital and analogue measurement of variables (e.g. distance, pressure or temperature) – Sourcing of components from different manufac- turers • Design/application/experience: protection against overvoltage, overpressure, overcurrent, overtempera- ture, etc. (15 points) and the use of well-tried compo- nents (5 points) 294 Annex G: What is the significance of the bar chart in Figure 5 of EN ISO 13849-1? For a comprehensible diagram