- 2 Schematic circuit diagram showing functional and test channels Figure 4: Example 2 with marked functional channel B0 – T1 – G1 and test channel with dedicated disconnect- ing device G2 – K1 – Q1 Chapter 3 explains how the schematic circuit diagram is transformed into a safety-related block diagram. SISTEMA Cookbook (Version 1.0) - 8 - 3 From the schematic circuit diagram to the safety-related block diagram 3 From the schematic circuit diagram to the safety-related block diagram In the next step, the schematic circuit diagram is transformed for each safety function into the logical representation of the safety-related block diagram. In the course of the transformation, the components of the schematic circuit diagram are assigned to "subsystems" with which the safety function is modelled in SISTEMA. In the presentation as a safety-related block diagram the logical interrelationships are rele- vant rather than the physical connections between the components. Each component within a safety function is a constituent part of a certain structure. This structure is termed a "Cate- gory" in EN ISO 13849-1, and grouped within SISTEMA as a subsystem. The sequences of subsystems with their corresponding Categories are represented by a safety function in the form of a safety-related block diagram. The sequence of the subsystems has no bearing upon subsequent calculation of the probability of failure. 3.1 Categories to EN ISO 13849-1 The Categories to EN ISO 13849-1, their characterizing features and their typical representa- tion are shown in Table 1. Table 1: Features and representation of the Categories Structure Category to EN ISO 13849-1 and Typical representation in the particular features safety-related block diagram Single-channel Category B (basic category) Single-channel Category 1 (use of well-tried com- ponents) Single-channel, Category 2 (component faults in the tested functional channel (X3) are detected by fault detection via the test chan- nel (X4, X5); the safe state is brought about) Note: the functional and test chan- nel may comprise one or more component(s). Two-channel, Category 3 (single-fault tolerance by with fault detec- redundancy, testing) tion Note: Each channel may comprise one or more component(s). SISTEMA Cookbook (Version 1.0) - 9 - 3 From the schematic circuit diagram to the safety-related block diagram Structure Category to EN ISO 13849-1 and Typical representation in the particular features safety-related block diagram Two-channel, Category 4 (as for Category 3, but with fault detec- also robust against the accumula- tion tion of two undetected faults) Note: Each channel may comprise one or more component(s). Encapsulated subsystems constitute a particular case. Encapsulated subsystems are com- ponents for which the manufacturer himself states the PL, PFH and Category (e.g. safety PLC, safety modules); see Table 2. Table 2: Encapsulated subsystems Structure Category to EN ISO 13849-1 and Typical representation in the particular features safety-related block diagram Different internal PL, PFH and Category are stated by structures possible the manufacturer Note: Component arrangements other than these do not comply with the designated archi- tectures of EN ISO 13849-1 and cannot be analysed by SISTEMA. 3.2 Structural analysis and explanations In the structural analysis, the components in the schematic circuit diagram are transferred to a safety-related block diagram, and the Category is determined by means of the characteris- tics of redundancy, testing, and the use of well-tried components. Note: This section is only concerned with determining the structure. Additional requirements beyond this apply to all Categories: for example, components must be designed, fabricated, selected, assembled and combined in compliance with the relevant stan- dards in such a way that they are able to withstand the anticipated ambient condi- tions. Essential safety principles must be applied. In Categories 1, 2, 3 and 4, safety principles which are well-tried must also be applied. Information on these aspects can be found in EN ISO 13849-2. Quantitative requirements the observance of which is checked by SISTEMA also apply to the Categories. The procedure described here is geared to the application of EN ISO 13849-1 and its "desig- nated architectures" for the Categories. If modelling to one of the categories is not possible, even when additional components or channels are omitted, the simplified method described in the standard cannot be applied. In this case, the probability of failure must be verified with recourse to other methods, such as Markov modelling, as described in EN 61508-6, Annex B. SISTEMA Cookbook (Version 1.0) - 10 - 3 From the schematic circuit diagram to the safety-related block diagram Procedure for structural analysis: The starting-point for the structural analysis is the schematic circuit diagram on which the function and test channels are marked. The procedure is shown schematically in Annex E. Figure 5 contains the same procedure, together with its application to Examples 1 and 2 shown in Chapter 2. Step 1: Formation of a sequence of the components in a functional channel All components along the first functional channel (that with the fewest components) are writ- ten as blocks from left to right (from the sensor to the actuator). Step 2: Considering the first block Each individual block of the first functional channel is now assigned in turn to subsystems of the relevant Category, according to the characteristic features of the Categories. Step 3: Does the component manufacturer state the PL and PFH (and Category)? An encapsulated subsystem can be recognized as such by the fact that it is already charac- terized by the manufacturer by a PL (or SIL in accordance with IEC standards), PFH and Category (internal structure). The internal structure of the encapsulated subsystem need not be deconstructed further. Note: If a Category 3 or 4 encapsulated subsystem occupies in both redundant functional channels, both functional channels pass through it. Step 4: Can all component faults be excluded? All assumed faults for the component in the block under analysis are considered in turn. For this purpose, the annex of EN ISO 13849-2 contains the fault models of a number of compo- nents used in machine controls. Owing to justified fault exclusions, certain component faults can be discounted. For each fault case, it