function • Safety-related stop function, initiated by a protective device: when the light beam is interrupted, a hazardous movement is halted (STO – safe torque off). Functional description • Interruption of a light beam of the n cascaded light barriers F1 to Fn triggers a de-energization command both by relays, by de-energization of the contactor relay K2, and via the PLC output (O1.1) of the test channel. The hazardous movement is then halted by means of the main contactor relay Q1. • The light barriers are tested before each start of the hazardous movement following pressing of the start button S2. For this purpose, the PLC output O1.2 de-energizes the light barrier transmitter in response to a software command. The reaction of the receiver (K2 drops out again) is monitored on the PLC inputs I1.1 and I1.2. Provided the behavi- our is free of faults, K2 locks in via O1.2, and the hazardous movement can be initiated by the releasing of S2. K1 is de-energized via O1.0, and the main contactor relay Q1 actuated via O1.1. • Should a fault in one of the light barriers or in K2 be detected by the test, the outputs O1.1 and O1.2 are deactiva- ted, and an actuating signal is no longer applied to the main contactor relay Q1. • In the event of global failure of the PLC (output O1.0 at low potential, outputs O1.1 and O1.2 at high potential), interruption of a light beam results in de-energization of K2, independently of the PLC. In order to ensure this inde- pendence, the light barrier outputs are decoupled from the PLC by the decoupling diode R2. Under unfavourable circumstances, the light barriers can be re-activated by K2 by actuation of the start button, and the main contactor relay Q1 thus actuated. In this case, (only) the test equipment would have failed. Failure of the test equipment is detected owing to the probability of a functionally defective process under these circumstances. • During the test, actuation of Q1 by K1 and O1.1 is blocked. 124 8 Circuit examples for SRP/CS F1 F2 F3 K2 Q1 R2 K3 Design features • Basic and well-tried safety principles are observed and the requirements of Category B are met. Protective circuits (such as contact protection) as described in the initial paragraphs of Chapter 8 are implemented. • Special light barriers with suitable optical characteristics (aperture angle, extraneous light immunity, etc.) to IEC 61496-2 are employed. • Several light barriers can be cascaded and monitored by only two PLC inputs and a relay or contactor relay. • The contactor relays K1 and K2 possess mechanically linked contact elements in accordance with IEC 60947-5-1, Annex L. The main contactor relay Q1 possesses a mirror contact in accordance with IEC 60947-4-1, Annex F. • The standard components F1 to Fn and K3 are employed in accordance with the guidance in subclause 6.3.10. • The software (SRASW) is programmed in accordance with the requirements for PL b (reduction of the requirements in the test channel owing to diversity) and the guidance in subclause 6.3.10. • The start button S2 must be located outside the hazard zone and at a point from which the hazard zone is visible. • The number, arrangement and height of the light beams must comply with EN ISO 13855 and IEC 62046. • Should an arrangement for the safeguarding of hazard zones permit stepping behind the sensing field, further measures are required, such as a restart interlock. The start button S2 can be used for this purpose. To this end, the PLC K3 compares the duration for which the button is pressed with maximum and minimum values. Only if the conditions are met is a start command deemed valid. Remarks • The example is intended for use in applications with an infrequent demand of the safety function. This enables the requirement for the designated architecture for Category 2 to be satisfied, i.e. “testing much more frequent than the demand of the safety function” (cf. Annex G). • Following triggering of a stop, the light barriers remain deactivated until the next start. This enables a hazard zone for example to be entered without this being “registered” by the circuit. The behaviour can be modified by corres- ponding adaptation of the circuit. Calculation of the probability of failure • By way of example, three light barriers F1 to F3 are considered for calculation of the probability of failure. Safeguar- ding of a second hazard zone constitutes a further safety function for which calculation is performed separately. • For calculation of the probability of failure, the overall system is divided into two subsystems, “light barriers” and “main contactor relay” (Q1). For the “light barriers” subsystem: • F1, F2, F3 and K2 constitute the functional path of the Category 2 circuit structure; the PLC K3 (including decoupling diode R2) constitutes the test equipment. S2 and K1 have the function of activating testing of the light barrier, and are not involved in the calculation of the probability of failure. • MTTF : an MTTF of 100 years [E] is assumed for each of F1 to F3. The B value for K2 is 20,000,000 cycles [S]. D D 10D At 240 working days, 16 working hours and a cycle time of 180 seconds, n is 76,800 cycles per year. Testing as op described above doubles this value, to an n of 153,600 cycles per year with an MTTF of 1,302 years for K2. op D 125 8 Circuit examples for SRP/CS These values yield an MTTF of 32 years (“high”) for the functional channel. An MTTF of 50 years [E] is assumed for D D K3. Compared to this value, the MTTF value of 228,311 years [S] for the decoupling diode R2 is irrelevant. D • DC : the reasoning for the DC of 60% for F1 to F3 is the functional test as described. The DC of 99% for K2 is avg derived from direct monitoring in K3 with the aid of mechanically