1S3 2S1 K5 K3 13 21 13 21 S1 P> S2 P> 14 22 14 22 K6 K4 K1 Input K2 Input Synchronization and Microcontroller ASIC data exchange Output Output 1V4 2V2 1V3 2V1 K3 K4 K5 K6 76 6 Design of safe control systems Functional description: 6.5.4 Safety-related block diagram • Operation of the actuators S1 and S2 of the two-hand The description of the circuit arrangement in conjunc- control initiates the hazardous movements (proces- tion with the circuit diagram and where applicable other sing cycle) of the clamping bar and the knife. Should descriptive documents (comprehensive specification) either of the actuators of the two-hand control be enables a control Category to be determined and the released during this cycle or a signal change occur actual circuit to be mapped to an abstracted safety- in the peripheral system of the machine that is not related block diagram (Figure 6.16, see Page 78). It quickly expected by the control system, the cycle is halted becomes clear from this example that the safety function and the machine assumes the safe state. is executed in two-channel mode. Category 3 or 4 may therefore be considered. The high-quality test measures, • Pressing the actuators S1 and S2 causes the rising by which combinations of faults can also be controlled, edges of the signals to be fed to the two processing suggest Category 4. This is demonstrated explicitly by the channels K1 (microcontroller) and K2 (ASIC). Provided verification step in Chapter 7, as is checking of the quan- these signals satisfy the requirements for simul- titative requirements for the MTTF , DC and CCF (see D avg taneity (500 ms) in accordance with the relevant below). The explanations provided in subclauses 6.2.8 standard, EN 574, the two processing channels set and 6.2.9 are helpful for implementation in the safety- the outputs (contactor relays K3 to K6) for a valid cut related block diagram. A proven procedure is to track the request. signal path, beginning at the actuator end, by asking: “How is the hazardous movement driven/prevented?”, • The two processing channels act synchronously and in order then to follow the logic through to the sensors. also mutually evaluate internal intermediate states of SISTEMA Cookbook 1 [34] describes this step “From the the cyclical signal processing operations. Deviations schematic circuit diagram to the Performance Level” in from defined intermediate states cause the machine more detail. Note in this example that actuators S1 and S2 to be halted. One processing channel is formed by a are not mutually redundant, even though they may initi- microcontroller (K1), the other by an ASIC (K2). K1 and ally appear so, since each button independently protects K2 perform background self-tests during operation. one of the user's hands. Rather, the redundancy begins within each button with the use of electrical break con- • Faults in the actuators S1/S2 and in contactor relays tact/make contact combinations. Each control channel K3 to K6 (with mechanically linked readback contacts) monitors both hands/actuators by interpreting at least are detected by cross monitoring in the processing one electrical switching contact in each actuator. The channels. safety-related block diagram therefore contains a make contact, e.g. S1/13-14, and a break contact, e.g. S2/21-22, • Failure of the valves 1V3/1V4 and 2V1/2V2 is detected in each channel. The safety-related block diagram differs by means of the pressure switches 1S3 and 2S1. substantially in this respect from the functional circuit diagram. • Failure of the valves or sticking open of 1V4 or 2V2 is detected by a strong reduction in the return speed Under certain circumstances, the actual implementation of the hydraulic cylinders. This situation can also be of the safety function may result in restrictions or recom- detected by the control system by suitable interpre- mendations for the application. For example, the effec- tation of the pressure signals (duration of pressure tiveness of fault detection by way of the work process is drop). by definition closely related to the application. • Failure of the valves or sticking open of 1V3 or 2V1 is detected directly by monitoring of the signal change Remarks of pressure switches 1S3 and 2S1: should a valve stick, a pressure is signalled even though no pressure • Application for example on paper-cutting guillotines should be present. (EN 1010-3) • All machine states are monitored by both processing channels. The cyclical nature of the cut operation cau- ses all system states to be cycled through, and faults 6.5.5 Input variables for quantitative can thus be detected. evaluation of the attained PL All basic information for evaluation of the attained PL is available at this point. With knowledge of the Category and of the safety-related block diagram, the MTTF and D 77 6 Design of safe control systems S1/13-14 S2/21-22 K1 K3 K4 1V4 2V2 Figure 6.16: Safety-related block diagram of S2/13-14 S1/21-22 K2 K5 K6 1V3 2V1 the SRP/CS for the selected safety function SF2 on 1S3 2S1 the paper-cutting guillotine DC can first be determined for the individual blocks, and In order to elucidate calculation of the MTTF , block “K1” D the measures against CCF also evaluated for existing will first be considered: although the conceptual schema- redundancies. This is followed by the “mathematical” tic diagram (Figure 6.15) shows only the microcontroller, steps for determining the MTTF of each channel, the this block includes further elements that are necessary D DC , and finally the PL. for the practical functionality (e.g. crystal oscillator). All avg elements the dangerous failure of which could prevent performance of the safety function in the affected channel Calculation of the probability of failure must be considered. This generally encompasses all ele- ments in the signal path critical to safety, e.g. for decoup- • MTTF : at 240 working days per year, 8 working hours ling, readback, EMC protection or protection against over- D per day and a cycle time of 80 seconds, n is 86,400 voltage. These elements are generally necessary for the op cycles per year. For S1