years is assumed for the In response to calls voiced by industry, an alternative, SRP/CS, within which the component reliabilities can simplified method for determining the PFH and quanti- D be described or approximated by constant failure rates. fiable aspects of the PL was added in the third edition of The actual mission time may fall below the assumed the standard. This method, described in subclause 4.5.5 20 years owing to the use of components subject to of the standard, can be applied only in certain cases, severe wear (refer to the T value in Annex D) or for namely: 10D other reasons. Application of the bar chart is justified in such cases by preventive replacement of the affected • for the output part of the SRP/CS (power control ele- components or SRP/CS. This information must be made ments) and available to the user in a suitable form, for example in the information for use and by marking on the • when no application-specific reliability data (MTTF , fai- D SRP/CS. Exceeding of the mission time of 20 years lure rate λ , B or similar) are available for mechanical, D 10D from the outset or its extension retrospectively beyond hydraulic or pneumatic components (or components 20 years result in deviations from the bar chart. Annex G employing mixed technology, such as a pneumatically shows how this can be addressed. driven mechanical brake). • In the bars for Category 2, it has been assumed that This simplified determining of the PFH is based primarily D the test rate is adequately high (refer also to sub- upon the implemented Category including DC and CCF. avg clause 6.2.14 and Annex E) and also that the test chan- Calculation of the (channel ) MTTF is not required; in D nel is at least half as reliable as the functional channel. return, well-tried components (in Categories 1, 2, 3 and 4) or proven-in-use components (in Categories 2, 3 and 4) Owing to capping of the MTTF that can be allowed for must be used throughout. “Proven-in-use” is a new com- D each channel to 100 years (2,500 years in the case of ponent property used within the standard and should not Category 4), a high PL can be attained only with certain be confused with the property of well-tried. The property Categories. Although this is related to the simplified of proven-in-use is demonstrated based upon an analysis approach of the designated architectures and the bar of experience gained in the field with a specific configura- chart, the associated limitations also apply when the tion of a component in a specific application. The analysis average probability of a dangerous failure per hour is cal- must show that the probability of dangerous systematic culated by means of other, unrelated methods. As already faults is sufficiently low for each safety function using the mentioned, the architecture imposes the following limita- component to reach its required Performance Level PL r tions upon certain Categories. These limitations are inten- (new definition in 3.1.39 of the standard). Such a demon- ded to prevent the component reliability from being over- stration has not been common in machine construction stated in comparison with the other influencing variables: before now. It is also unclear why the requirement refers only to systematic faults, and fails to consider the random • In Category B, a maximum PL of b can be attained. component faults. • In Category 1, a maximum PL of c can be attained. • In Category 2, a maximum PL of d can be attained. Table 6.5 shows the estimated PFH value and the PL D • In Categories 3 or 4, even a PL of e can be attained. attainable with it, based upon Table 7 in the new sub- clause 4.5.5 of the standard, as a function of the imple- Besides the quantitative aspect of the probability of mented Category and subject to the additional conditions failure, qualitative aspects must also be considered for placed upon the method. attainment of a given PL. Such aspects include systematic failures (see subclause 6.1.2), and software faults, which The method is subject to the following additional condi- are discussed in greater detail in subclause 6.3. tions: • Since the estimated PFH values are based upon the D simplified method for estimation of a PL (bar chart), the same conditions apply as for the designated architectures. A mission time of 20 years and constant failure rates within the mission time are assumed. In 62 6 Design of safe control systems Table 6.5: PL and PFH as an estimation erring on the safe side based upon the Category, DC and the use of well-tried or proven-in-use D avg components PFH in 1/h Category B Category 1 Category 2 Category 3 Category 4 D PL b 5.0 · 10-6 ⇦ ● ○ ○ ○ ○ PL c 1.7 · 10-6 ⇦ – ● ● ○ ○ PL d 2.9 · 10-7 ⇦ – – – ● ○ PL e 4.7 · 10-8 ⇦ – – – – ● ● Applied Category is recommended ○ Applied Category is optional – Category is not permissible Further conditions apply, see Section 6.2.17 Category 2, the tests must be performed adequately upon data for their proven-in-use property, unless fail- frequently. No provision is made here for a test rate that ure of these components becomes apparent through is only 25 times the demand rate. the technical process. • In Category 1: use of well-tried components and well- • Categories 2, 3 and 4: since recourse cannot be made to tried safety principles (as in the past and as established formula E.1 of the standard (formula (4) of the present in the Category 1 definition). report) for calculation of the DC owing to the unavai- avg lability of MTTF values, the DC is formed in this case D avg • In Category 2: the MTTF of the test channel is at least simply as the arithmetic mean of the individual DCs