• On hydraulic valves, silting may occur when the valve editors and compilers. Errors in logic operations, which remains in the same switching position for a longer may have an effect only in unpredictable operational situ- period. In this case, fine dirt particles are deposited in ations and which may not be detectable with reasonable the sealing gap between switching cycles, causing the effort during acceptance/commissioning, can thus be valving element to stick. prevented in a user-friendly manner. For these reasons, a high force surplus (e.g. spring force) This does not mean that the designer is spared a com- must generally be engineered for return of the valving ele- plete analysis of the influence exerted by functional ment to the “safety-oriented switching position”. On non- standard components of a control system upon its safety- mechanical springs, retention of the reset function must related parts (including the influence of the safety-related be assured by suitable measures. In addition, the effects functions upon each other); the analysis of where (tech- described above must be prevented by cyclical switching, nically) and how (functionally) such influences may arise to which the standard now refers. Failures caused by the is however considerably simplified and accelerated by the absence of switching are to be prevented by suitable swit- use of the development tools referred to above. The even ching cycles/test cycles at intervals for example of less more pertinent question, namely how to eliminate (avoid than eight hours. or control) influences that are detected, may not even arise. Example 3: Separation of safety-related and non-safety-related 6.1.3 Ergonomics functions Annex I, subclause 1.1.6 of the European 2006/42/EC Standards governing functional safety generally address Machinery Directive requires requires manufacturers of the separation of safety-related functions from other machines to reduce, at the design stage of the machine, (non-safety-related) functions. EN ISO 13849-2 is one the discomfort, fatigue and psychological stress faced by such example, regarding this separation for example as a the operator to the greatest possible extent, taking into well-tried safety principle for electrical systems under the account ergonomic principles. This therefore also applies heading “Minimise possibility of faults”. This requirement to the interfaces between operators of a machine/ins- applies to both hardware and software. At the same time, tallation and the SRP/CS. These interfaces include both there may be reasons why complete separation is disad- the safeguards themselves, such as a guard door with vantageous. In such cases, clearly defined functional and position switch, and the operation of a safety function, for technical interfaces must at least be implemented that example by means of pushbuttons or even by a software enable influences upon the safety-related part to be avoi- display interface suitable for this purpose. A machine- ded and/or controlled. determined work rate and monitoring that requires lengthy concentration are also to be avoided. 47 6 Design of safe control systems The importance of ergonomic principles for the SRP/CS, more precise methods; the method is, however, suitable and the fact that the design of a machine does not always for practical application even by non-mathematicians, take account of all cases of intended use or foreseeable and the procedure is largely transparent and therefore misuse of the SRP/CS, is demonstrated by the HVBG verifiable. This simplified method is presented below report on the defeating of protective devices on machi- in detail, both in general terms and with reference to a nery [29]. Resources and further information on the sub- calculated practical example (see subclause 6.5). Further ject of defeating can be found on the www.stop-defeating. details on selected specific subjects can be found in the org website. annexes. EN ISO 13849-1 therefore requires that ergonomic prin- 6.2.1 Designated architectures... ciples be applied, and lists a number of useful standards for this purpose in subclause 4.8. In order for designers The structure or architecture of a safety-related control of machines to be able to check the design of the human- system determines its tolerance of faults, and constitutes machine interface of the SRP/CS, the IFA has drawn up the framework upon which all other quantifiable aspects a checklist for ergonomic machine design. In February are based, by which the PL of the safety-related parts 2018, this checklist was updated together with further of control systems is ultimately formed. The experience documents in the form of DGUV Informative publication gained by the IFA in conjunction with industry since 1985 209-068/069 (formerly BGI/GUV-I 5048-1/2) [30]. Among confirms that the greater part of all implemented controls the subjects addressed more specifically are: manually can be assigned to a very small number of basic types operated actuators; keyboards, (keypad) keys and input of safety-related control systems (or to combinations of devices; displays; visual danger signals; and the soft- these basic types, see below). These types are: at one end ware ergonomics of user interfaces. VDI/VDE guideline of the spectrum, the single-channel untested system with 3850 [31] for example serves as an aid to the user-friendly components of differing reliability; in the middle of the design of user interfaces for machines. spectrum, the same type, but enhanced by testing; and at the other end, the two-channel systems featuring high- 6.2 Quantification of the probability of quality testing. Systems with more than two channels and failure other “exotic” structures are extremely rare in machine construction, and the simplified method is of only limi- The numerical quantification of the probability of fail ure ted use for their assessment. Even where more than two required by the standard for determining of the PL, often channels are present, however, it is generally sufficient referred to (including in other standards) simply as for the two most reliable channels to be considered in “quantification”, can strictly speaking never be attained order for the PL to be estimated with sufficient precision exactly, but only by approximation with the aid of statis- by means of the simplified method involving designated tical methods or other estimations. The main influencing architectures. Systems employing more than two chan- variables that must be considered during