include, in addition to the test rate, the failure The summation extends over all relevant blocks with the rate of the test equipment itself, for example. In multi- following provision: channel systems however, the frequency of a test is of lesser consequence, since the relevant intervals are • For blocks with no DC, a DC of 0% is substituted. These generally considerably smaller than the MTTF values of D blocks thus contribute only to the denominator of the the channels. Consequently, several channels must fail fraction. Whether the absence of diagnostics for blocks before the impairment of a test becomes relevant to the is consistent with the requirements of the Category con- system, which is very unlikely as long as the test cycles cerned must be determined on a case-by-case basis. continue to be much smaller than the MTTF of a channel. D Category 2 imposes the generic requirement of “check Subclause 6.2.14 provides more comprehensive expla- of the safety function(s)”, Category 3 fault detection nations concerning the required test rate. In Category 2 “whenever reasonably practicable”, Category 4 also structures however, failure of the test equipment turns a requires detection of an individual fault and only “if this single-channel tested system into a single-channel untes- detection is not possible” that the safety function is ted system. The next dangerous failure in the functional also to be performed in the event of an accumulation of channel can then no longer be detected and leads directly undetected faults. to performance of the safety function no longer being possible. In addition to requirements for the DC, further 291 Annex E References conditions therefore apply for the simplified assessment of the probability of failure of Category 2 systems: [1] IEC 61508-2: Functional safety of electrical/electro- • All test rates must be at least 100 times (in exceptional nic/programmable electronic safety-related systems cases, at least 25 times) greater than the demand rate – Part 2: Requirements for electrical/electronic/pro- upon the safety function; alternatively, in the event of grammable electronic safety-related systems (2010) testing immediately upon demand of the safety func- tion, testing should be performed so quickly that the [2] EN ISO 13849-2: Safety of machinery – Safety-related safe state is reached before a hazard arises. This is to parts of control systems – Part 2: Validation (2012) ensure that a failure can be detected by a test before a demand of the safety function cannot be met (see also [3] ISO/TR 24119: Safety of machinery – Evaluation Annex G). of fault masking serial connection of interlocking devices associated with guards with potential free • The MTTF of the test channel (TE and OTE) must be contacts (11/15) D at least half as high as the MTTF of the functional D channel (I, L and O). This assumption ensures that the probability of failure of the test channel is not unac- ceptably high. Should this condition be violated (even after capping of the MTTF of the functional channel to D 100 years), it is of the motor is kept within specified limit values. SSR Safe speed range The speed of the motor is kept within specified limit values. STR Safe torque range The torque of the motor (the force in the case of linear motors) is kept within specified limit values. The manner in which a safety function is executed may • Specification of safety-related parameters, such as the take very different forms. For this reason, certain characte- maximum permissible speed ristics must be observed at selection, and specified on a case-by-case basis. These include: • Required Performance Level PL r • Use in different operating modes (e.g. automatic mode, Detailed information on the definition of safety functions setup mode, troubleshooting) can be found in SISTEMA Cookbook 6, “Definition of safety functions: what is important?” [23]. • Use of different safety functions according to whether the power supply is available or has failed (see also 5.3.2 Examples in which the definition of the subclause 4.3 of [22]) safety function has an influence upon subsequent calculation of the PFH D • Response(s) to tripping of the safety function • Response(s) to detection of a fault in the safety function Later chapters will show how the average probability of a dangerous failure per hour (PFH ) can be calculated for D • Response time a safety function. The foundation for this is however laid at this stage, with definition of the safety function. By its • Frequency of actuation nature, the technical implementation of a safety func- tion determines the type and scale of the components • Priority, in cases where several safety functions may be re quired for it. The definition of the safety function thus active simultaneously has a considerable influence upon determination of the 30 5 Safety functions and their contribution to risk of course permissible to calculate the probability of failure using an MTTF of the functional D channel that is reduced mathematically to double the MTTF of the implemented test channel. D 292 Annex F: Common cause failure (CCF) Changes with respect to the second edition purpose by which β values of between 0.5 and 10% can (BGIA Report 2/2008e): be determined. Points are assigned in a long list of meas- ures sorted according to different causes; when certain Text of the descriptions of the measures brought into rules are applied, the sum of these points results in an line with the third edition of the standard estimated β value. EN ISO 13849-1 takes up this method, both in simplified form and with adaptation to machine safety. Simplification is based upon technical measures The term common cause failure (CCF) describes the fact that experts have considered particularly useful for the that in a redundant system or a single-channel system avoidance of CCF. This is, however, a compromise that can with separate test channel, several channels may be dis- be justified empirically, but not scientifically: abled by one and the same cause. The desired single-fault tolerance of a redundant structure is thus