Annex D: Schematic table The schematic table is an alternative method of structure analysis in accordance with Figure 5. All components shown on the schematic circuit diagram are entered in a table in accordance with the method described in Section 3. Table 4 shows the possible combina- tions and the resulting structure (possible Category) and presentation in the safety-related block diagram; Table 5 has been completed for the example in Section 3, and Table 6 pro- vides an empty form for the user's examples. Table 4: Formalized schematic table for structure analysis in accordance with Section 3 (the steps stated in Section 3 are entered in red) Components in the (1) X1 (2) X2(2a) X3 (2a) X4 (2a) first functional chan- nel Is the Category stated by the com- Yes ponent manufacturer (3)? Redundant compo- X5 (, X6) (4a) nent(s) (4) Component(s) in the test channel (fault X7 (, X8) (5a) detection and dis- connection) (5) B to 4 Encapsula- Possible Category B or 1 (6) 3 or 4 (4b) 2 ted subsys- tem Block presentation It can be helpful during the structure analysis to imagine Steps 3, 4 and 5 as follows: what happens when the component is hit with a "test hammer", i.e. a component fault is induced? (3) Does the internal structure maintain the (safety) function? (4) Is the SF retained owing to redundant design of the SF involving other components? (5) Is the component fault detected in time and a safe state brought about? SISTEMA Cookbook (Version 1.0) - 27 - Annex D Schematic table Table 5: Table completed for the example in Section 3 Components in the first B1 Q2 functional channel Is the Category stated by the component manufacturer? Redundant compo- B2 K1, Q1 nent(s) Component(s) in the test channel (fault de- tection and for the machine design engineer to calculate the probability of a dan- gerous failure per hour (PFH) in order to determine the Performance Level (PL). The Per- formance Level is dependent upon the control system's structure (Category), as well as the systematic requirements. For this purpose, the IFA provides the SISTEMA software tool (the German acronym stands for "safety of controls on machines”), which can be downloaded free of charge from www.dguv.de/ifa, Webcode e34183. Before beginning the calculations, the machine design engineer must produce a safety- related block diagram for each safety function from the circuit diagram. The safety-related block diagram must show the implementation of the safety function in functional channels (including redundant channels, where present) and testing components, also where present. The SISTEMA Cookbook 1 addresses this unfamiliar and difficult abstraction step (Figure 1) and the subsequent step, that of transferring the blocks to SISTEMA and entering their pa- rameters. SISTEMA Cookbook (Version 1.0) - 4 - 1 Introduction Figure 1: Flow chart, from the safety function to the Performance Level; the four steps with grey background are described in detail in these instructions. SISTEMA Cookbook (Version 1.0) - 5 - 2 Schematic circuit diagram showing functional and test channels 2 Schematic circuit diagram showing functional and test chan- nels 2.1 Creating the schematic circuit diagram In order for the probability of failure of a safety function to be calculated at a later stage, it must be known which components are employed in the safety function and which are not. A precise definition of the safety function (see BGIA Report 2/2008, Chapter 5) is therefore indispensable for the subsequent steps. The schematic circuit diagram showing the relevant components is produced for each safety function. The relevant components include all those of which the failure may impair execution of disconnec- Block diagram tion) (summary): (8) Possible Category 3 or 4 3 or 4 B1 Q2 Block presentation B2 K1 Q1 Table 6: Form for user's examples Components in the first functional chan- nel Is the Category stated by the com- ponent manufacturer (3)? Redundant compo- nent(s) (4) Component(s) in the test channel (fault detection and dis- connection) (5) Possible Category Block presentation SISTEMA Cookbook (Version 1.0) - 28 - Annex E Flow chart for structure analysis (without example) Annex E: Flow chart for structure analysis (without example) SISTEMA Cookbook (Version 1.0) - 29 - the safety function in a functional channel (redundant structures possess two functional channels). They also include all test facilities responsible for detecting such dangerous failures and bringing about a safe state. A sche- matic circuit diagram shows for example the electrical circuitry of position switches, pro- grammable logic controllers (PLCs) and contactors, and the flow of current from the sensor, via signal processing, to the actuator. Example 1 (Figure 2) shows an implementation of the safety function for "opening of the movable guard initiates the safe torque off (STO) safety function". All other components which are purely functional and have no influence upon the safety function have already been omitted. Figure 2: Schematic circuit diagram showing relevant components (Example 1); see BGIA Report 2/2008e, Chapter 8.2.18 SISTEMA Cookbook (Version 1.0) - 6 - 2 Schematic circuit diagram showing functional and test channels 2.2 Entering the function and test channels The functional channels are first marked on the schematic circuit diagram. It has been found effective in practice to "work backwards", i.e. to begin at the actuator end and follow the channel back to the sensor. This yields the signal paths from the triggering event to the response of the safety function (Figure 3). Figure 3: Schematic circuit diagram with two redundant functional channels, B1-Q2 and B2-K1-Q1 (Example 1) Where circuits employ a test channel with a dedicated disconnecting device (Category 2), this test channel is also marked on the schematic circuit diagram. Figure 4 shows the exam- ple of a protective device fitted at the intake of a roller; when the device is tripped, the motor is stopped within 1/3 of a rotation. In this example, the angle of rotation required for the motor to come to a stop is tested regularly by manual actuation of the protective device. SISTEMA Cookbook (Version 1.0) - 7