or lie outside the specification (are invalid) gory 1 only) • Simulation (where possible) • Evaluation of faults to be analysed and permissible fault exclusions including their reasoning where added to • Performance tests (functional parameters, response fault lists on a case-by-case basis time, etc.) The annexes in Part 2 of the standard, and also Annex C of However, final assessment of proper integration of all this report, provide detailed assistance in execution of the safety functions on the complete machine includes a last four of the analyses stated. series of further aspects, such as the dimensioning of overruns and safety clearances. The following sub-tests shall be added if the preceding analyses are not sufficient or fault analyses performed on 7.4 Verification of the PL of the SRP/CS the test specimen are to be confirmed: This subclause describes the activities normally per- • Tests of the behaviour under fault conditions of the formed for demonstration of the attained Performance SRP/CS with fault injection, i.e. testing of the safety Level PL of a single SRP/CS. The procedure to be followed functions under fault conditions (test of the effect of for combinations of several SRP/CS is explained in sub- failure); alternatively, fault simulation where the test clause 7.6. cases with fault injection are not practicable The PL of an SRP/CS is determined on the one hand by • Use of extended functional tests to test the behaviour quantifiable aspects/values such as the MTTF , DC, CCF of the SRP/CS in the event of input signal states that D and the Category, and on the other by qualitative aspects are rare, unexpected, lie outside the specification or such as the behaviour under fault conditions of the safety are defective, and defective processes/inputs during function, the design measures for the safety-related soft- operation ware and systematic failures, and the functional beha- viour under the anticipated (maximum) operating and 7.4.2 Verification of the MTTF values D environmental conditions. Evaluation of the individual aspects is followed by a description of a procedure for The MTTF values employed for determining of the PL D checking the estimation of the PL. Like EN ISO 13849-1 should be checked at least for plausibility. This typically and -2, the present report and this subclause assume that includes evaluation of whether suitable sources are sta- the “simplified method” is selected for estimation of the ted for the origin of the values. Review of the precise rea- PL. This method has already been described.behaviour soning given for the values is also recommended for the dominant components and otherwise by random selec- 7.4.1 Verification of the Category tion for all other components. The data sources stated in subclause 6.2.12 and Annex D can for example be used for The objective of verifying the Category is to confirm that this purpose. Suitable determining of the B , T and n 10D 10D op all requirements placed upon the Category are met in the values is verified analytically, and correct calculation sub- development step under analysis; refer to subclauses sequently checked, at least for plausibility. 6.2.2 to 6.2.7 in the behaviourpresent report and sub- clauses 9.2.1 to 9.2.5 in [6]. 91 7 Verification and validation 7.4.3 Verification of the DC values • Analysis of implementation of program execution moni- toring The diagnostic coverage (DC) assigned to the blocks or, where applicable, components shall be dimensioned • Inspection and testing of the safety-related properties reproducibly. Here too, the stated origin of the values and of data communications systems; where used, identifi- the reasoning for them is typically analysed. Annex E pro- cation of certified components vides guidance concerning estimation of the DC values. This can also serve as a basis for verification. • Inspection of development documents that confirm the application of basic and well-tried safety principles and The implemented design shall be analysed regarding further measures taken, such as hardware diversity whether the fault diagnostics measures described have been implemented. For this purpose, it is generally neces- The present report does not address the evaluations of sary for the fault diagnostics functions and modules to organizational measures required by EN ISO 13849-2 [6] be identified in the development documentation, and for the avoidance of systematic failures, such as quality toestimate their effectiveness . In addition, tests of the management systems for the manufacturing process (sub- behaviour under fault conditions of the SRP/CS (failure clause 9.4 e in [6]). mode and effects testing/testing by fault injection) should show that proper fault detection is assured by the fault 7.4.6 Verification and validation of the diagnostics functions. Finally, calculation of the DC is to software avg be checked at least for plausibility. The verification activities performed in the course of spe- 7.4.4 Verification of the measures against CCF cification, design and coding of the software (inspection/ review for software specification, software design and EN ISO 13849-1, Annex F contains a points-based method code, static software analysis, module test, software for evaluation of the selected measures against common simulation, integration test) have already been described cause failures (CCF). Besides checking of attainment comprehensively in subclause 6.3. For verification of the of the total number of points and clarification that the software, too, graded software design measures shall be selected measures are described comprehensively in the specified in this context according to the PL to be attai- associated documents, analysis or testing shows that the ned. measures have actually been implemented. The typical V&V activities employed for this purpose include static The final development activity in the simplified “V model” hardware analysis and functional testing under environ- is that of software validation. Whether the requirements mental conditions (limit conditions). stated in the safety-related software specification con- cerning the functional behaviour and the performance 7.4.5 Verification of the technical measures criteria (e.g. time-related specifications) have been imple- against systematic failures mented correctly shall be examined. At this stage, vali- dation no longer considers the internal workings of the V&V activities concerning technical measures for the software, but its “external” behaviour, i.e.