of a control system SS1-r, SS1-t Safe stop 1 (see Table 5.2) SS2-r, SS2-t Safe stop 2 (see Table 5.2) SSC Safe stopping and closing, trapping of compressed air in the piston chambers without closed-loop position control STO Safe torque off (see Table 5.2) T Mean time until 10% of the considered components fail dangerously 10D THC Two-hand control 105 8 Circuit examples for SRP/CS 8.2.1 Position monitoring of movable guards by means of proximity switches – Category B – PL b (Example 1) L B1 Motor starter Q1 U < M 3~ Figure 8.3: Position monitoring of movable guards by means of proximity switches Safety function • Safety-related stop function, initiated by a safeguard: actuation of the proximity switch when the movable guard (safety guard) is opened initiates the safety function STO (safe torque off). Functional description • Opening of the movable guard (e.g. safety guard) is detected by a proximity switch B1 that acts upon the undervoltage release of a motor starter Q1. The dropping out of Q1 interrupts or prevents hazardous movements or states. • The safety function cannot be maintained with all component failures, and is dependent upon the reliability of the components. • Removal of the protective device is detected. • B1 contains no internal monitoring measures. No further measures for fault detection are implemented. Design features • Basic safety principles are observed and the requirements of Category B are met. Protective circuits (such as con- tact protection) as described in the initial paragraphs of Chapter 8 are implemented. The closed-circuit current principle of the undervoltage release is employed as the basic safety principle. • A stable arrangement of the safeguard (safety screen) is assured for actuation of the proximity switch. • Depending upon the design of the proximity switch, bypassing of safe operation may presen- Sicherheitsanforderungen der Maschinenrichtlinie wird ted. Based upon this information, the report can be used aufgezeigt und mögliche Verfahren zur Risikoabschätzung to select the required Performance Level PL for safety werden vorgestellt. Auf der Basis dieser Informationen r functions in control systems. The Performance Level erlaubt der Report die Auswahl des erforderlichen Perfor- PL which is actually attained is explained in detail. The mance Level PL für steuerungstechnische Sicherheits- r requirements for attainment of the relevant Performance funktionen. Die Bestimmung des tatsächlich erreichten Level and its associated Categories, component reliability, Performance Level PL wird detailliert erläutert. Auf die levels of diagnostic coverage, software safety and measu- Anforderungen zum Erreichen des jeweiligen Performance res for the prevention of systematic and common-cause Level und seine zugehörigen Kategorien, auf die Bauteil- failures are all discussed comprehensively. Background zuverlässigkeit, Diagnosedeckungsgrade, Softwaresicher- information is also provided on implementation of the heit und Maßnahmen gegen systematische Ausfälle sowie requirements in real-case control systems. Numerous Fehler gemeinsamer Ursache wird im Detail eingegangen. example circuits show, down to component level, how Hintergrundinformationen zur Umsetzung der Anforde- Performance Levels a to e can be engineered in the selec- rungen in die steuerungstechnische Praxis ergänzen das ted technologies with Categories B to 4. The examples Angebot. Zahlreiche Schaltungsbeispiele zeigen bis auf provide information on the safety principles employed die Ebene der Bauteile hinunter, wie die Performance and on components with well-tried safety functionality. Level a bis e mit den Kategorien B bis 4 in den jeweiligen Numerous literature references permit closer study of the Technologien technisch umgesetzt werden können. Sie examples provided. The report shows how the require- geben dabei Hinweise auf die verwendeten Sicherheits- ments of EN ISO 13849-1 can be implemented in enginee- prinzipien und sicherheitstechnisch bewährte Bauteile. ring practice, and thus makes a contribution to consistent Zahlreiche should be applied for compliance accordance with IEC 61508. The scope for the use of with the Machinery Directive? SRP/CS developed against the standards originating at IEC is emphasized by the new edition of EN ISO 13849-1. • Where they overlap in their scope, do the standards This means that such SRP/CS can be considered equally yield equivalent results? valid when used for the implementation of safety func- tions under EN ISO 13849-1. • Are the classification systems of the standards, such as Categories, Performance Level (PL) and Safety Integrity Decisive arguments from the point of view of users in the Level (SIL), compatible? field for selecting EN ISO 13849 as a basis for the imple- mentation of functional safety in the area of machinery • Can devices which have been developed in observance may be considered to be the cross-discipline approach of one of the two standards be employed during imple- with regard to technology, and the simplified approach to mentation of a safety function in accordance with a quantification with the use of the designated architectu- different standard? res. This includes the detailed consideration of non-elec- trical and electromechanical components. Large-volume For attainment of the greatest possible compatibility producers of a safety component, such as a programma- with IEC, and if possible to permit merging of the two ble logic controller (PLC) for safety applications, will of spheres of standardization in the long term and also to course in particular wish to serve other world markets enable the benefits of the probability approach to be in addition to that of machinery, and will therefore base exploited without abandonment of the proven Categories, 16 3 Generic standards concerning the functional safety of machinery control systems their development activity upon IEC 61508 in addition to in 2012. The result of be possible in a reasonably foreseeable manner. Bypassing can be made more difficult, for example by particular conditions for installation, such as shrouded installation (see also EN ISO 14119). • The power supply to the entire machine is switched off (stop Category 0 to IEC 60204-1). 106 8 Circuit examples for SRP/CS B1 Q1 Calculation of the probability of failure • MTTF : B1 is a conventional proximity switch on a safety screen with an MTTF of 1,100 years [M]. For the under- D D voltage release of the motor starter Q1, the B value approximates to the electrical durability