attained for the desired safety function In order to check the functional requirements upon the r SF2. This analysis is consistent with the requirement in safety function, a functional test is performed, supple- EN 1010-1 [28], which further details the technical require- mented by an extended functional test for testing of the 94 7 Verification and validation behaviour of the safety function in response to rare or tage fail, the clamping bar and the knife are returned to non-defined inputs. A possible example of such a test is their initial positions by spring force. testing of the response of the SRP/CS when a valid cut request from the two-hand control is accompanied by a Plausibility tests can be cited in this context as an fault signal, for example on peripheral equipment or initi- example of well-tried safety principles: mechanically ated by a stop command from a light curtain. Performance linked contacts in the contactor relays K3 to K6 are read tests of functional aspects are also conducted. These back by both channels. Tests are performed to demon- include, for example, a check of the time to be observed strate proper functioning of readback. for synchronous actuation in accordance with EN 574 [55]. Only when the two actuators S1 and S2 are operated • Verification of the MTTF values D within an interval of ≤ 0.5 seconds may output signals be generated for actuation of the clamping bar and the knife. The value of 150 years, substituted for the valves 1V3, 1V4, 2V2 and 2V1, is considered here by way of example The tests and analyses stated above for the specified for verification of the MTTF values (see Figure 6.15). The D safety characteristics have been passed. manufacturer's figure was obtained from a reliable source, and its plausibility was confirmed by comparison with the Verification of the PL of the SRP/CS corresponding value in Table C.1 of EN ISO 13849-1 [5] (see Table D.2 of the present report). The conditions stated by • Verification of the Category The essential terms of reference for the Category of the Design features SRP/CS are laid down at an early stage of development, based upon the complete or binding specification. • The requirements of Category B, basic and well-tried Category 4 was also selected for the determined PL e. safety principles, are observed. Owing to diversely r Verification of the specification showed that the circuit redundant processing channels (microcontroller structure based upon it (diverse redundancy, see also and ASIC), a single fault does not result in loss of subclause 6.5.2) satisfies the requirements for a Cate- the safety function, and systematic faults are largely gory 4. prevented. For the two-hand control, as envisaged in this case, • The safety-oriented switching position is assumed tests of the behaviour under fault conditions are perfor- from any position by cancellation of the control med on a prototype with reference to the development signal. documentation. This verifies whether the requirements overall for a Category 4 are also met in this case. Testing • All electrical signals, including those of the pressure is performed by the controlled injection of faults. The sensors, are processed in a multi-channel control SRP/CS shall respond to the injected faults in the man- system. ner specified. An analysis is first performed, followed by testing, to ascertain the behaviour when, for example, • The actuators S1 and S2 of the two-hand control individual contactor relays are no longer capable of satisfy IEC 60947-5-1. executing switching commands, or of how the SRP/CS react when one of the two actuators S1 or S2 is actuated • K3 to K6 possess mechanically linked contacts accor- with a delay, or not at all. The safety function shall be ding to IEC 60947-5-1, Annex L [56]. The associated assured at all times when a single fault is injected into break contacts for monitoring of the make contacts the SRP/CS. A single fault shall be detected at or prior are monitored in the respective adjacent channel. to the next execution of the safety function. Should the fault not be detected, an accumulation of further faults • All conductors carrying signals are laid either separa- shall not result in loss of the safety function. The expec- tely or with protection against mechanical damage. ted safe response for each injected fault is described in the associated test protocol and the behaviour of • The software (SRESW) is programmed in accordance the SRP/CS commented with the evaluation criterion of with the requirements for PL d (downgraded owing to “passed” or “not passed”. diversity) and the guidance in subclause 6.3. Observance of the de-energization principle as an • Fault-avoidance measures in development of the ASIC example of basic safety principles can be demonstrated are performed in accordance with the ASIC develop- by the injection of interruptions and evaluation of the ment life cycle (V model) of IEC 61508-2 [48]. response to them. Should for example the supply vol- 95 7 Verification and validation the manufacturer for assumption of the MTTF value (e.g. rent technologies of K1 and K2 are the reasoning for the D oil changes) are described in the instruction handbook 20 points assigned for diversity. and it is assumed that these conditions are observed in operation. • Verification of the measures against systematic failures • Verification of the DC values The observance of basic and well-tried safety principles is a highly effective measure against systematic fail- A DC of 90% is confirmed for K1 and K2, based upon ures. The activities for verification of the Category also self-diagnostics. This includes a cross monitoring of encompass checking of whether both types of safety input signals and intermediate results (from the micro- principle have been observed. The results of the analy- controller and the ASIC), monitoring of the timing and ses and tests performed for that purpose can thus also logic of program execution, and detection of static be used for assessment in this phase. internal and peripheral failures. Further tests are a CPU test in