up, and a suitable temperature range (for further details, primarily comprised new production lines, condition- see Annex C). based maintenance was performed. Annex C.3, Table C.2 of EN ISO 13849-2 lists well-tried The failure data for the directional control valves at User safety principles for hydraulic systems. The most impor- B's facility were likewise recorded in the maintenance tant principles comprise overdimensioning/safety factors, department of a transmission production plant. Appro- speed limitation/reduction by means of a resistance for ximately 25,000 directional control valves varying in age attainment of a defined volumetric flow, force limita- were in use in this case. Data were available for all direc- tion/reduction, an appropriate range for the operating tional control valves that had failed over a period of four conditions, monitoring of the condition of the pressure years (2000 to 2003). In contrast to User A's situation, the medium, the use of well-tried springs, and sufficient over- failure data for each year were available. It was therefore 268 Annex D lap in piston-type valves (for further details, refer again to • System and operating conditions Annex C). • Operation functions and conditions • Rate of operations and durability Experience gained through application of the second edi- • Protection against over-current and over-temperature tion of the standard has shown that for hydraulic valves, • Protection against over-voltage the frequency of actuation n (number of actuations per • Special conditions of use op year, see subclause D.2.4) is also a relevant parameter for the reliability. For this reason, the third edition of the The manufacturers provide manuals containing com- standard states graded MTTF values of between 150 prehensive information on selection and engineering. D and 1,200 years for hydraulic valves (see Table D.2) as a function of n as part of the good engineering practice In the context of quantification in accordance with op method (see subclause D.2.5). EN ISO 13849, the selection criteria for the lifetime will be considered briefly here. A distinction is drawn between Even though the standard states MTTF values for hydrau- the mechanical and electrical durability. The mechanical D lic valves subject to these conditions, each valve manu- durability of a contactor is expressed by the number of facturer should, if at all possible, determine failure stati- operation cycles attained by the contactor without loading stics for his own components and state an MTTF value of of the conducting paths. It is dependent upon the wear of D his own. the mechanical moving parts. D.2.4 MTTF of pneumatic and electro- The electrical durability of switchgear is expressed by the D mechanical control components number of operation cycles at the attainment of which the electrical contact elements are worn out. The electrical In fluid power, mechanical and electromechanical tech- contact elements are stressed during operation under nology, the lifetime and reliability of the components are electrical load, during both the contact making and brea- generally determined by the wear characteristics of the king processes. This causes wear of the contact members moving elements. in the form of contact pitting. It varies as a function of the voltage, current, load type (e.g. inductive) and dura- In fluid power components such as valves, which gene- tion. Complete contact pitting generally leads to contact rally constitute complex units with a large number of welding. In applications relevant to safety, this must be moving elements (such as pistons, plungers, springs in detected, in order for hazardous states caused by failure the pilot and main stages), the operational environmental of the contacts to open to be detected. For detection to conditions may also strongly influence the lifetime. These be assured, mechanically linked contacts must be used include, in particular: on contactor relays, or mirror contacts on contactors. The manufacturer's information must be observed here. • The quality and condition of the pressure medium (compressed air) The mechanical durability and the electrical durability of • Compatibility of seals with the lubricants the contact elements are determined by the manufactu- • Temperature influences rers in test series. These values are however not indepen- • Environmental influences such as dusts, gases, fluids dent of each other. The actual durability of the contactor may depend upon the power and operating mode of the Observance of the requirements specified by the compo- electrical load, as well as upon the mechanical wear. The nent manufacturer is crucial, since the parameters for the durability of the device is influenced by these values. failure behaviour of the component from which the control system category is calculated are not otherwise valid. The B values stated in Table D.2 of this report (see 10D subclause D.2.4.1) for the durability of the device are for A distinction is drawn between contactors and contactor orientation only. Preference should be given to the values relays. Contactor relays are used to implement logic and stated by the manufacturer. Should the manufacturer to drive contactors. Where higher power ratings must be himself not state a B value, but state values (number 10D switched, for example motors > 3 kW, contactors are gene- of operation cycles) for the mechanical and electrical rally used. Contactor relays are governed by the provisions durability, the lower of these values (generally dependent of IEC 60947-5-1, contactors by those of IEC 60947-4-1. upon the load in the case of the electrical durability) can be used as an estimate of the B value. The B can 10 10D Comprehensive criteria must be observed for their selec- be obt ained by doubling of this value (see subclause tion and use. These particularly include: D.2.4.1). 269 Annex D Table D.2: Typical reliability values that may be assumed to be reached when good engineering practice is followed Basic and well-tried Other relevant standards Typical values: safety principles to EN ISO MTTF (years) D 13849-2:2012 B (cycles) 10D Mechanical components Tables A.1 and A.2 — MTTF = 150 years D Hydraulic components with Tables C.1 and C.2 EN ISO 4413 MTTF = 150 years n ≥ 1,000,000 cycles per year D op Hydraulic components