6 and 7 are devices are regarded in the sense of EN ISO 13849-1 accompanied by a comprehensive description of a circuit (safeguards) together with the safe control as the safety- example (paper cutting guillotine). This provides the related part of a control system. Together, they execute a developer with an illustrative explanation of the methods safety function; they may for example prevent unexpected and parameters described below. start-up when an operator enters a hazard zone. Since a machine can easily have several safety functions (for Safety-related parts of control systems are able to exert example for automatic and setup microcontroller K4 receives a redundant message 2 from S1 via the bus transceiver K2. Within the response time/process safety time, K4 checks the correct displacement of the proportional valve 1V4, as signalled by the position measuring system 1S4 integrated into 1V4, for plausibility against the desired position determined from message 2. Should faults be detected, K4 switches off the hydraulic pressure at a higher level by means of the directional control valve 1V3, and places the system in the safe state. Design features • Basic and well-tried safety principles are observed and the requirements of Category B are met. Protective circuits (such as contact protection) as described in the initial paragraphs of Chapter 8 are implemented. • The MPC is a safety component suitable for use in PL d and satisfies the requirements for Category 3. • In accordance with the functional description, processing of the control information and actuation of the valves are effected within a Category 2 structure. Within this structure, K4 and 1S4 form the test channel with 1V3 as the shut- off element of the test channel. • Owing to the continual monitoring of 1V4 by K4 through 1S4, failure of 1V4 can be detected as soon as a demand is made upon the safety function. 1V3 must execute the safe response within the response time in order for the struc- ture of the control to satisfy Category 2. Abrupt switching of 1V3 at a higher level must not give rise to hazards. • The proportional valve 1V4 and the directional control valve 1V3 have a closed position/closed centre position, spring centred central position, and sufficient overlap. • The software (SRESW) for K3 and K4 is programmed in accordance with the requirements for PL d and the informa- tion in subclause 6.3. 153 8 Circuit examples for SRP/CS • Data transfer from the MPC to the logic control is safe in accordance with GS-ET-26/IEC 61784-3. The data commu- nications protocol employed contains redundant messages with comparison between K3 and K4, and measures for detection of the following transmission errors: repetition, loss, insertion, incorrect sequence, corruption, delay and masquerade (see also subclause 6.2.18). The residual error rate Λ is lower than 1 · 10-8 per hour and thus con- tributes, as specified in the assessment standards, less than 1% towards the maximum permissible probability of failure of the safety function. Modelling is in Category 4; the resulting component in the calculation of the overall probability of failure is negligible. Remarks • An emergency motion function of the earth-moving machine, which is not shown here, may be required; if so, it must be implemented at a higher level. Calculation of the probability of failure • The multi-purpose control S1 is a commercial safety component. The associated probability of failure is added at the end of the calculation (PFH = 3.0 · 10-7 per hour [E]). For the remaining part of the control system, the probabi- D lity of failure is calculated below. • MTTF of data communication: an MTTF of 11,416 years [D] is assumed for the bus transceivers K1 and K2. This is D D capped in Category 4 to the maximum value of 2,500 years. • DC of data communication: DC = 99% for K1 and K2 by cross monitoring of the messages in the microcontrollers avg K3 and K4. • The calculated probability of failure of data communication is a PFH of 9.1 · 10-10 per hour. D • Adequate measures against common cause failure (65 points): separation (15), overvoltage protection (15) and environmental conditions (25 + 10). This analysis also applies to the downstream parts of the control system. • MTTF of the functional channel of the logic and hydraulic control system: in accordance with SN 29500-2, an MTTF D D of 878 years [D] is considered for the microcontroller K3, including its peripherals. The following values are substi- tuted for the further electrical components [D]: 45,662 years for the switching transistors K5 and K7, 228,311 years for the resistances R1 and R2, and 1,142 years for the measuring amplifiers K6 and K8. An MTTF of 150 years [S] is D assumed for the proportional valve 1V4. The MTTF value of the functional channel is thus 104 years. D • MTTF of the test channel of the logic and hydraulic control: in accordance with SN 29500-2, an MTTF of 878 years D D [D] is considered for the microcontroller K4, including its peripherals. An MTTF of 75 years [E] is assumed for the D position measuring system 1S4. An MTTF of 150 years [S] is assumed for the directional control valve 1V3. The D MTTF value of the test channel is thus 47 years. Use of the simplified procedure described in the standard for esti- D mation of the quantifiable aspects of the PL is conditional upon the MTTF of the test channel being greater than D half the MTTF of the functional channel. The MTTF value of the functional channel is therefore reduced to 94 years. D D • DC of the functional channel of the logic and hydraulic control: the DC for K3 is 60% owing to cross monitoring avg with K4 and self-tests of simple effectiveness by means of software; the DC for the remaining electrical compo- nents is 90% owing to fault detection in K4 by means of the position measuring system 1S4. The DC for 1V4 is 99% owing