within the statistical uncer- tainty. They also serve to retain the equivalence to the MTTF = 1 (D.1) other parameters (five Categories, four DC levels), and to D λ D provide the necessary simplification for presentation in the bar chart. At a constant failure rate, the MTTF is therefore equiva- D lent to statement of a failure rate, whilst being much more Table D.1: illustrative. Whereas the practical significance of an FIT Division into classes of the MTTF for channels which execute D value is not very illustrative, statement of an anticipated the safety function time in years conveys the quality of components more Description of the MTTF Range of the MTTF graphically. Figure D.2 shows the statistically anticipated D D for each channel for each channel development of the proportion of dangerous failures over the mission time for four different MTTF values. A Low 3 years ≤ MTTF < 10 years D D further mathematical relationship can be observed here: Medium 10 years ≤ MTTF < 30 years D at attainment of the MTTF mark on the time axis, a stati- High 30 years ≤ MTTF ≤ 100 years D D 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 Figure D.2: Time in years Illustration of the MTTF D 266 seruliaf suoregnaD MTTF : D 3 years not 10 years acceptable low 63%-line 30 years medium high 100 years Capping The simplified quantification method to EN ISO 13849-1 understood only as an illustrative indicator of the level assumes a usual mission time not exceeding 20 years for of reliability within the mission time, and that it serves components in safety-related control systems in machine neither as a guarantee of a failure-free period before the construction. Consequently, and with knowledge of the MTTF is reached, nor as a precise prediction of the point D characteristic of the failure rate over time (Figure D.1), in time at which an individual component will fail. Once it becomes clear that a declared MTTF value should be the wear phase is reached, the failure behaviour changes D Annex D fundamentally and can no longer be described realisti- factors may differ. A very high MTTF may be assumed for D cally by a constant failure rate. mechanical and hydraulic components, which are opti- mized in their design and use for high reliability and low Desired side-effects of this classification are the rejec- wear. Random failures (in the constant failure rate phase) tion of MTTF values of < 3 years from each channel, and and wear failures are less significant for these compo- D the capping of higher MTTF values for each channel nents. Conversely, for the majority of electronic compo- D to a maximum of 100 years (this capping is raised to nents, the failure behaviour over the typical mission time 2,500 years for Category 4; these values are also to be of comparatively “cheap” industrial components is gene- assigned to the “high” class). Figure D.2 shows that with rally well described by a constant failure rate, since the an MTTF of three years, almost 30% dangerous failures wear phase is reached only under exacerbated operating D can be expected after just one year, which would appear conditions. The failure behaviour of electromechanical to be unacceptable for a safety-related control system. At or pneumatic components is very different again in its the other end of the scale, statistical validation of relia- nature. The wear phase of these components can easily bilities of > 100 years MTTF appears highly questionable be reached within the usual mission time. For this reason, D (this is acceptable in Category 4, since the other parame- the attainable number of successful operation cycles is ters determining the reliability, such as redundancy and generally stated as the parameter, rather than a lifetime in fault detection, already have a high level). Furthermore, a terms of a time or failure rate per unit time. Consideration residual probability of a dangerous failure within the mis- must be given to all these technology-specific aspects sion time remains at MTTF values of any magnitude, and during calculation of the MTTF value. For this reason, the D D may occur for other reasons (e.g. maloperation). It there- standard proposes differentiated procedures. fore appears inappropriate to validate high Performance Levels solely by the use of highly reliable components, D.2.1 MTTF of mechanical control components D without appropriate redundancy and fault detection. In the bar chart to EN ISO 13849-1, this conclusion is The approach employing constant failure rates is, unfor- expressed by the fact that no further MTTF range is shown tunately, not well suited to mechanical control com- D above the “high” MTTF class, even though this would be ponents. At the same time, almost all safety functions D possible according to the calculated probability. Higher involve mechanical control elements, at least where MTTF values are not capped to the maximum value of the sensors or actuators of mechanical control compo- D 100/2,500 years until the channel level, i.e. substantially nents are concerned that have the function for example higher MTTF values may be substituted in the calculation of detecting movements or stopping hazardous move- D for individual components. ments. Although it would often be possible for an MTTF D estimated erring on the safe side to be stated for these D.1.3 What is the origin of the data? components, fault exclusion is generally employed in this case. Provided the requirements for the fault exclusion A possible problem for users of the standard, particularly are observed and documented, this is generally the most at the point at which the revised EN ISO 13849-1 was first elegant means of considering the reliability of the mecha- published, was the lack of MTTF data for components nical components. These requirements include adequate D used in the SRP/CS [2]. In subclause 4.5.2, the standard resistance to the anticipated environmental influences, proposes a hierarchy of data sources. The first of these i.e. the validity of a fault exclusion