up sui- and adaptation work during commissioning of an instal- table programming guidelines of its own, provided they lation or machine. This procedure is termed “modifica- have a sound practical or theoretical basis. Program- tion”. These changes are often so extensive that not only ming guidelines govern the use of critical language con- the code, but even the original specification is no longer structs, the scope and interface of software functions, appropriate and should in fact be revised. Changes to the formatting and commenting of the code, symbolic safety functions at one end of the installation or machine names of functions and variables, etc. may also have an impact on the safety functions at the other end that have not been modified that at this stage. These tools and guidelines should be specified in the Equally, the modifications may reveal gaps in the safety design document. concept. This possibility should be examined, and the necessary phases of the V model repeated if appropriate. 6.3.8 Unloved, but important: documentation and configuration management Practical experience also shows however that even after it has been installed, a machine or installation may still Before the manufacturer issues the EC declaration of require an additional 12100 [3] standard. In addition to the standards, components which are independently placed on the mar- the ISO/TR 14121-2:2013 [4] technical report serves as a ket by manufacturers in order to fulfil a safety function, practical guide to risk assessment, and contains methodi- the failure and/or malfunction of which endangers the cal examples. safety of persons, and which are not necessary in order for the machinery to function or for which normal compo- Based upon the (generic) EN ISO 12100 [3] standard, nents may be substituted in order for the machinery to the updated EN ISO 13849-1:2015 [5] and EN ISO 13849- function, are also included under the term “machinery” in 2:2012 [6] series of standards describes the risk reduction the sense of the directive. The formal definition of “machi- required during the design, structuring and integration nery” is also satisfied by interchangeable equipment, of safety-related parts of control systems and protective certain lifting accessories, chains, ropes and webbing. devices, regardless of whether they are electrical, elec- Detailed explanations of the individual points can be tronic, hydraulic, pneumatic or mechanical in nature. found in the Guide to application of the Machinery Direc- These standards present a generically applicable system tive 2006/42/EC [2]. The directive now also applies to of methods for machine controls and/or their protective incomplete machines. devices. The Performance Levels described in the stan- dards extend the concept of Categories familiar from The essential requirements of the Machinery Directive for EN 954-1. The safety architectures can now be employed the design and construction of machines and safety com- with significantly more flexibility. An essential advan- ponents can be found in Annex I of the directive. In addi- tage of EN ISO 13849-1 is its treatment of safety-related tion to general principles for the integration of safety, this parts emergency stop facility or guard conformity for a machine, he must draw up its technical door, for example. The machining process is also fre- 69 6 Design of safe control systems quently improved: once again, the safety concept must Requirements for SRESW be adapted in this case. The existing software must be “modified”. Note: this may be the case on SRP/CS that The use of externally sourced industrial standard compo- have already been operated for a longer period of time nents not developed specifically for use in safety func- and for the most part without failures caused by software tions and containing embedded software was not previ- faults – which could equally mean that a present but ously addressed in EN ISO 13849-1. Numerous examples “hidden” fault has simply not yet taken effect. Following of SRP/CS exist in practice however that make use of a modification, however, this situation may change, for standard components such as PLCs, frequency inverters example if the software was not adequately structured or sensors and that implement safety for example by and individual modules/functions are not therefore diverse redundancy with fault detection at system level. en tirely without reciprocal influence. An example employing a standard PLC and a standard fre- quency inverter is shown in Annex I of the standard. Since In the situations described, “Murphy's Law” often takes observance of the SRESW requirements is not generally effect: the program was written many years previously, but confirmed by the manufacturer for such standard com- the original programmers now have more pressing tasks ponents and cannot be performed subsequently by the or have already left the company. In this case, it is in the integrator, satisfaction of the SRESW requirements was interests of both the safety and economy of the machine not demonstrated in the past. or installation for the software to possess the properties stated above: legibility, structure, intelligibility, and also EN ISO 13849-1, subclause 4.6.2 now dispenses with the the facility for straightforward, non-error-prone modifica- need for satisfaction of the SRESW requirements to be tion – irrespective of whatever programming personnel demonstrated for such standard components, provided happen to be available. the following conditions are met: In principle, a modification means that the design pro- • The SRP/CS is limited to PL a or PL b and uses Catego- cess must be restarted, i.e. in the V model, at the point at ries B, 2 or 3. which a change was made (Figure 6.11), for example: • The SRP/CS is limited to PL c or PL d and its use of mul- • When the code has been changed, the module and inte- tiple components for two channels in Categories 2 or gration test must be repeated, as must validation. 3 is permissible. The components in these two chan- nels employ diverse technologies. The requirement for • If changes were also required to the specification, it diverse technologies in the two channels leads to the too must be verified again, for example by review