additional aspects • Subclause 5.4.2, “Transition from a required Category apply that are not covered by the product standard. In in accordance with EN 954-1 to a PL” deleted order for issues not covered by a product standard to be r identified, the first two steps in the risk reduction strategy • Example of a paper cutting guillotine revised described below must always be performed, i.e. the limits of the machinery must be defined and the hazards iden- tified. This Report deals with safety functions and their contribu- 5.2 Risk reduction strategy tion to reducing risks in hazard zones on diagnostic analysis). 251 Annex B function blocks are still expressed. The circuit analysis mode, or certain components for the assurance of EMC. must ultimately produce a block diagram in which all the The content of each function block must be determined structures that are of relevance to safety are reflected: unambiguously by circuit diagrams and parts lists. Owing to the way in which it is created and its particular func- • Single or parallel signal paths (“channels”) that are tion, the safety-related block diagram differs generally used to execute the safety function from block diagrams serving other purposes, such as those geared to the mechanical structure of assemblies. • Signal paths that execute a safety-related substitute function in the event of a fault Figure B.1 shows, by way of example, the safety-related block diagram of a Category 2 single-channel machine • Circuits for the detection of failures (diagnostics) control system featuring: Where auxiliary circuits that are required for performance • A microcontroller of the safety function or for some other safety-related action (e.g. power supplies, oscillators) are able to influ- • A light barrier for the monitoring of hazard zones ence one channel only, they should be grouped with the function block(s) of the channel concerned. Should • A “watchdog” for the detection of certain controller mal- these auxiliary circuits act upon several channels, they functions form a separate single-channel part (function block) on the safety-related block diagram. The same principle • A closed-loop motor drive control (frequency inverter) applies to circuits that are able to prevent performance driven by the controller of the safety function, another safety-related action or diagnostics owing to a particular manner of their failure. • A device for de-energization of the motor that can be Examples include circuits for selection of a safe operating actuated by the watchdog (pulse inhibit) Activation of Readback of light barrier test shut-off test Figure B.1: Example safety- related block diagram of a Category 2 single- channel machine control system 225522 reggirT seslup Light Microcontroller Electronic barrier control system drive 2nd De- Watch- energization dog device The safety function entails de-energization of the motor The safety-related block diagram contains only function as soon as, and for as long as, the light beam of the light blocks that are related to the “safe torque off” safety barrier is interrupted (“safe torque off”). Besides the function; it does not contain control or display devices safety function, the microcontroller and the downstream for other machine functions. In the event of a fault, some drive control perform a number of other machine func- components in these circuit parts may have negative tions which, since they are not safety functions, will not repercussions for the safety function. Only then should be considered here. Although in this example, the safety these components be included in the function blocks that function is implemented entirely electrically, the princip- they could cause to fail. les described for the safety-related block diagram and the FMEA apply to all technologies. The safety-related block diagram will often take the form of one of the “designated architectures” in accordance with EN ISO 13849-1, subclause 6.2.2 (subclauses 6.2.1 to Annex B 6.2.7 of this report), as in the example presented here. In In both cases, the dangerous (i.e. unfavourable from a such cases, the method described in subclause 4.5.4 of safety perspective) failure rate, specifically its reciprocal, the standard (supplemented by Annexes B, C, D, E, I and the MTTF (mean time to dangerous failure), and the DC D K of the standard) may be applied for quantitative calcula- (diagnostic coverage) of the function blocks in the safety- tion of the Performance Level. It is not advisable however related block diagram must be known. For calculation to shoehorn a different structure into the form of one of of these values, a special variation of the FMEA is used these architectures. It may be possible to break an exis- that employs the component failure rates in the form of ting system structure down into parts each of which then quantitative values. The special form of the FMEA used corresponds to a designated architecture. here differs in this respect from the majority of other FMEA types, which are used for other purposes such as the early Should a breakdown of this kind not be possible, a dedi- detection of problems and fault avoidance during deve- cated model must be produced for quantitative calcula- lopment [2]. tion of the safety-related reliability for the safety-related block diagram concerned. An introduction to suitable A particular feature of an FMEA for quantification purpo- modelling techniques can be found for example in [1]. ses is its structure according to the function blocks of the safety-related block diagram. The principle is that a sepa- B.2 Purpose and characteristic of an FMEA rate FMEA is performed for each of these function blocks, for quantification and produces results only for the function block concer- ned. The results for each function block are not combined For quantitative demonstration of the PL, the average until later, by inclusion together in the calculation of the probability of a dangerous failure per hour (PFH ) must PFH /PL by way of a system-specific mathematical model D D be estimated. This can be achieved with the aid of a or the simplified quantification method in EN ISO 13849-1. mathematical model (e.g. a Markov model) generated for the system under