upon the safety function (continuous designated architecture for Category 2 must testing at a mode of operation), it indicates the number of dangerous frequency substantially higher than that of the demand system failures per hour. For Category 2, a requirement is of the safety function be made a requirement (alterna- that testing is fully effective. This can be attained by an tively: testing takes place immediately upon demand adequate relationship between the test and demand rate and the times for fault detection and safe response are or by an adequately fast response to a fault (cf. subclause together shorter than the specified system response 6.2.14). Since the PFH determined in this way considers time; cf. EN ISO 13849-1, subclause 4.5.4). The standard D only random failures and not systematic failures and other proposes a test rate that is at least 100 times that of the negative effects, it must be regarded as a theoretical per- demand rate. Even down to a ratio of 25 : 1, however, the formance value that denotes the safety quality of a design PFH increases only by approximately 10%, which can D but does not permit conclusions for example regarding be allowed for by a correction factor of 1.1 (cf. Note 1 in the frequency of accidents. This PFH is the mathematical Annex K of the standard). This ratio in the rates avoids D an unacceptably high impairment of diagnostics caused 296 Annex G by insuffi ciently frequent performance of the test. For the anticipated from the Markov modelling can then be esti- Categories B, 1, 3 and 4, the influence of the demand rate mated as described in the first case with addition of upon the PFH is negligibly low. The PFH values deter- an allowance. The situation is critical where the D D mined from the diagram for the Categories B, 1, 3 and SRP/CS contains wearing parts or components that 4 therefore apply to any demand rates and any (mean) deteriorate over age; these typically include “chemical” repair times. For values of less than one demand per year, components (e.g. “wet” electrolytic capacitors, batte- the bar chart provides an estimation erring on the safe ries, electrochemical sensors), mechanical components side. For Categories 3 and 4, the PFH values are valid for (such as brakes, clutches), electromechanical compo- D adequately high test frequencies (see explanations in nents (such as switches, relays, contactors), fluid power subclause 6.2.14). components (such as valves), and certain optical com- ponents (such as optocouplers). In this case, the user Should the mission time of an SRP/CS exceed 20 years, of the machine (operating party) is generally unable to the PFH values determined by means of the simplified assess whether all its components are also designed for D method (Annex K of the standard) are generally no longer an extended mission time, or what measures, such as valid. Under certain circumstances, this situation can preventive replacement of individual parts, proof tes- however be addressed within the simplified procedure ting, etc., must be performed. Extension of the mission with a few improvements. Two possible scenarios exist: time – with addition of the allowance stated above to the PFH – is possible only when manufacturer's infor- D • In the first scenario, the SRP/CS is specified from the mation is available on the measures to be taken when outset for a mission time exceeding 20 years. The influ- the mission time is extended, and only conditional ence of the longer mission time can then be estimated upon these measures being implemented by the user erring on the safe side from the Markov models upon (operating party). which Annex K of the standard is based, as follows: for every five years' extension of the mission time beyond The columns for Category B and 1 in Figure G.1 were cal- 20 years, a further 15% is added to the PFH for Cate- culated by means of a model that considers the demand D gories 2, 3 and 4 (Categories B and 1 require no adjust- of the safety function, and the repair. The PFH values D ment of the PFH ). The simplified method and SISTEMA for these Categories can however be approximated very D can therefore still be used. This is conditional upon well by the simple relationship PFH ≈ λ = 1/MTTF . D D D constant failure rates, irrespective of the mission time. This means simply that the PFH of the single-channel D For parts subject to wear, this means that the parts un tested system (DC = 0) corresponds practically to its avg must be designed for the specified longer mission time dangerous failure rate. T (T ≥ T ), or each part must be replaced preventively M 10D M upon expiration of T . For the other Categories, however, reduction safety-related reliability. This will be explained in the fol- Figure 5.6: lowing examples. Stopping of drives 1 and 3 when the guard door is opened Example 1: Safety function “Stopping when the guard door is Drive 1 opened” Drive 2 When the guard door is opened, a machine operator has access to a danger zone in which five drives control the Position monitoring movements of machine parts. Opening the guard door Logic Drive 3 o f guard door causes all five drives to be brought to a halt as quickly as possible. Drive 4 When the PFH of the safety function is calculated later, D the PFH values of the following blocks2 are therefore Drive 5 D added: • Position monitoring of the guard door, including mecha- Example 2: nical components Safety function “Stopping of the drive when a guard door is opened” • Logic A hazardous movement is safeguarded by a fence with • Drives 1 to 5 five guard doors. Opening any of the doors halts the movement. Since a person will only ever open one of the The calculation may yield a PFH that is no longer ade- guard doors at once, each door constitutes a