les fonctions relatives à la sécurité des systèmes de los sistemas de mando. Se explica detalladamente de commande. Il explique aussi en détail la manière de cómo de determinar el nivel de prestaciones PL que se ha déterminer le niveau de performance PL effectivement alcanzado realmente. Se tratan en detalle los requisitos atteint. Le rapport traite également en détail des exigen- para lograr el nivel de prestaciones en cuestión y sus ces à satisfaire pour atteindre le niveau de performance categorías correspondientes, la fiabilidad de los compo- donné et ses catégories correspondantes, de la fiabilité nentes, los grados de cobertura del diagnóstico, la seguri- des composants, des taux de couverture de diagnostic, dad del software y las medidas contra fallos sistemáticos de la sécurité des logiciels et des mesures à prendre con- así como los errores de causa común. La oferta se com- tre les défaillances systématiques, ainsi que contre les pleta con informaciones de trasfondo para implementar erreurs de cause commune. Cette offre est complétée par los requisitos en la práctica de la ingeniería de control. des informations générales concernant la mise en œuvre Numerosos ejemplos de circuitos que abarcan hasta el des exigences dans la pratique de la energy dissipation function Opening of a hydraulic valve for pressure release Control modes and operating mode selection Activation of safety functions by an operating mode selector switch Function for stopping in an emergency Response to actuation of an emergency-stop device with STO or SS1 (Table 5.2) 29 5 Safety functions and their contribution to risk reduction Table 5.2: Safety functions described in IEC 61800-5-2 (2016 edition) [20] Abbreviation Description Function STO Safe torque off Motor not receiving energy capable of generating rotary movement; stop category 0 to EN 60204-1 SS1-r Safe stop 1 Motor decelerating; monitoring of deceleration ramp and STO following SS1-t standstill (SS1-r), or STO following a timeout (SS1-t); stop category 1 to EN 60204-1 SS2-r Safe stop 2 Motor decelerating; monitoring of deceleration ramp and SOS following SS2-t standstill (SS2-r), or SOS following a timeout (SS2-t); stop category 2 to EN 60204-1 SOS Safe operating stop Motor is stationary and resisting external forces SLA Safely-limited acceleration Violation of an acceleration and/or deceleration limit value is prevented. SLS Safely-limited speed Exceeding of the speed limit value is prevented. SLT Safely-limited torque Violation of a torque/force limit value is prevented. SLP Safely-limited position Exceeding of a position limit value is prevented. SLI Safely-limited increment The motor is moved a specified incremental distance, after which it stops. SDI Safe direction The motor is prevented from running in the undesired direction. SMT Safe motor temperature Exceeding of a motor temperature limit value is prevented. SBC Safe brake control Safe actuation of an external brake. SCA Safe cam A safe output signal is generated as long as the motor position remains within a specified range. SSM Safe speed monitor A safe output signal is generated as long as the motor speed remains below a specified value. SAR Safe acceleration range The acceleration evalua- and the average diagnostic coverage DC for the entire tion of their DC to EN ISO 13849-1. Different measures are avg subsystem under analysis of a safety-related control sys- usual for each function (I, L, O, i.e. input, logic, output), tem (SRP/CS). The formation of groups by means of the Category and technology. Their evaluation may vary as key values is applied here both for qualification of the a function of the design or external factors, such as the individual tests, and for definition of the DC . Since DC application in which the control system is operated. In avg avg is one of the input variables for the simplified bar-chart some applications, indirect monitoring by displacement method for quantification of the probability of failure, transducers or position switches on the actuators rather the calculated DC value is rounded down to the next than on the control system elements may for example not avg lowest of the four key values (0, 60, 90 and 99%) from provide any indication of whether the safety function can Table E.1, and thereby placed in one of the four DC classes still be executed independently by each of two redundant (None, Low, Medium and High). For example, a DC value control channels. In general, evaluation as a numerical DC avg of 80% is reduced in the simplified approach to a value value makes no distinction between automatic tests (e.g. of 60% (in contrast to the procedure in the IFA SISTEMA program routines that are performed regularly) or delibe- software utility, which employs intermediate DC values rate tests (e.g. tests initiated manually by the operator at avg in its default setting; see Annex H). The DC of individual regular intervals); refer here also to subclause 6.2.14. tests will first be discussed below, followed by calculation of the DC . avg Table E.2: DC key values for typical test and monitoring measures at component and block level, to EN ISO 13849-1 Measure Primarily relevant for DC (%) Description of measure I L O Cyclic test stimulus by dynamic X 90 Periodic generation of a signal change with change monitoring of the results Plausibility check/readback/ (cross-)monitoring • Without dynamic test X X 0 to 99 The attained DC value depends on how often a signal change is done by the application • With dynamic test, X X 90 without high quality fault detection • With dynamic test, X X 99 with high quality fault detection Indirect monitoring X X X 90 to 99 The attained DC value depends on the application Direct monitoring X X X 99 Fault detection by the process X X X 0 to 991 The attained DC value depends on the application; this measure alone is not suf- ficient for the required Performance Level e2 Monitoring some characteristics X 60 286 Annex E Which unit performs a test is in principle also irrelevant, redundant functional channels executing the safety func- for example in the case of self-tests. Only where appro- tion. The