result in • Activation of an operating mode must be unambiguous the required safety functions not being activated, or – in (i.e. each position of the selector switch must corres- a worst-case scenario, when operating mode selection pond to only one operating mode) fails altogether – the machine being operated unnoticed with no safety functions whatsoever. When a machine • The selected operating mode must be clearly identi- tool is changed from the “setup” to the “process monito- fiable by the operator (for example evident from the ring” operating mode, for example, this could lead to an position of the selector switch) un acceptable increase in the risk. The Machinery Directive permits substitution of the selec- When operating mode selection is treated as a safety tor switch in the application by a different item of equip- function in the sense of EN ISO 13849-1, the standard also ment for selection that is able to restrict the use of certain becomes relevant for evaluation of the control technology machine functions to selected groups of persons. The use employed. Depending upon the components used and of electronic equipment for this purpose is not excluded; the scenario, fault exclusions could be asserted. This pro- the circuits and components used that are relevant to cedure will be described below for common control ele- safety, and any software that may be used, must however ments used for operating mode selection. Further infor- attain a level of safety comparable to that of an electro- mation on operating mode selection as a safety function mechanical operating mode selector switch. can be found in subclause 4.1 of [2]. 305 Annex I I.2 Cam-operated selector switches Figure I.1: Structure of the operating mode selection function On switches with direct opening contact elements to IEC 60947-5-1 [3], Annex K, fault exclusion for failure of the contacts to open can be applied in accordance with Table D.8 of EN ISO 13849-2 [4]. These switches also have Access system Selection system Activation system the status of well-tried components; the safety function can therefore be classified as Category 1 in accordance with the standard when they are used. Access system If, on switches with direct opening contact elements, the fault exclusions are also possible for short circuit between The access system is the part of the operating mode adjacent isolated contacts and for simultaneous short cir- selection function that restricts the facility to select the cuit between the three terminals of changeover contacts operating mode to certain groups of persons and prevents in accordance with Table D.8 of EN ISO 13849-2, these actuation of the selection system inadvertently or impro- component faults need not be assumed. For example, on perly. Since selection of each operating mode is associ- a two-channel electrical circuit, fault exclusion permits ated with the activation of different safety functions, the modelling as a Category 3 subsystem and implementation access system is considered relevant to safety. up to Performance Level PL d in the single-channel mecha- nical components (refer in this context also in IFA Report On electromechanical selection equipment, access is 4/2018e, Annex A, Example 8 [2]). implemented by means of a key. Mechanical coding of the key can be used to limit the selection to specific operating Fault exclusions cannot be asserted for PL e; additional modes. This measure is accompanied by organizational measures are required in this case. It is possible for measures that have the purpose of limiting access to the example for the operator of the machine to be required to key(s) to certain groups of persons. confirm the selected operating mode following display on a user interface. At the same time, an activation system On electronic selection equipment, access can be imple- (see subclause I.3) in the safety-related control in PL e is mented for example by means of an RFID (radio-frequency to ensure that at any given time, no more and no less than identification) key or by passwords and corresponding one operating mode is selected on the machine. organizational measures. For analysis of the safety, assessment is necessary of whether the access restric- I.3 Electronic equipment tions exhibit safety comparable to that provided by a key on electromechanical selection equipment (integrity of Fault exclusion is not possible on electronic equipment. A the access data, coding, copy protection, organizational further analysis is therefore required for fault analysis of measures, etc.). The access system does not therefore operating mode selection by means of electronic equip- need to be considered during determining of the probabi- ment. lity of failure of the safety function. For this purpose, it must first be established which ope- Selection system rating mode selection functions must be modelled by the selection equipment. Analysis reveals the following sub- The selection system determines the operating mode that functions: is to be activated by the activation system in the control system (see below). 1) Access to the operating mode selection function On electromechanical selection equipment, the selection 2) Selection of the operating mode system corresponds to the manually actuated switch knob, the position of which is transmitted mechanically, 3) Activation of the operating mode for example via a shaft and cams, to the electrical contact elements. As described above, fault exclusion permits On an operating mode selection arrangement engineered safety implementation up to PL d and with the application by means of electronic equipment, the sub-functions sta- of additional measures up to PL e on such equipment. ted can be implemented in three subsystems (Figure I.1) [5]: On electronic selection equipment, the selection system is generally implemented by means of a user interface (human-machine interface, HMI), for example employing a touchpad or membrane keyboard. The operator specifies the operating mode to be activated in the machine control 306 Annex I through the user interface and where applicable further For the activation system, a PFH is determined according D electronic components. Since standard components are to the control components used for this purpose that must generally employed for this purpose, classification of a yield at