a low DC for the avg EIinngpauntg LLooggiick AOuustgpauntg functional channel. • “Testing of the safety function” cannot always be per- formed by testing of the functional channel from input OOTTEE TTEE to output. Ideally, it should be performed actively by AuOsugatpnugt d oefr TTeesstt eeiqnuriicphmtuenngt tTeesstt eeiqnuriicphmtuenngt the test equipment itself, or the test equipment should use components of its own to monitor execution of the Interconnection safety function passively. In the passive solution, an Monitoring (reasonably adequate test rate must be ensured by the application. practicable fault detection) Alternatively, the blocks (I, L, O) or components in the functional channel can be monitored individually; dia- The test must not itself give rise to a hazardous situation gnostics should always be as close as possible to the (e.g. owing to lengthening of the response time). The “actual execution of the safety function”. test equipment may be integral with or separate from the functional channel (see below for further information). • The statement that the test equipment may be integral Category 2 cannot be applied in some cases, since testing with or separate from the functional channel means of the safety functions is not possible on all components. that whilst it is permissible for elements of the test Since the safety function can fail unnoticed between equipment performing the test to be located within the tests, the interval between tests is a critical parameter. In functional channel, for example in an SRP/CS consisting addition, the test equipment could itself fail undetected of electronics, the part of the test equipment evaluating before the functional channel fails. Simplified quantifica- the diagnostic results must however normally be engi- tion of the PL by means of the designated architecture and neered external to the functional channel, for example the bar chart (Figure 6.10, Page 61) is therefore subject to in the form of a separate watchdog. Only in this way can the following requirements: the requirements concerning mutual independence of the functional and test channels be satisfied. The dia- • The MTTF value of the test channel is not lower than gnostic information for the test equipment should pro- D half the MTTF value of the functional channel, and vide adequate information on the safety-related service- D ability of the monitored parts of the functional channel. • The test rate is at least 100 times the mean demand It must therefore exhibit a certain minimum complexity rate upon the safety function (as an exception, at least in order to enable the test equipment to reach a sound 25 times as high; see subclause 6.2.14) or testing is per- decision regarding the serviceability. Complete merging formed immediately when a demand is made upon the of TE with the functional channel is not acceptable, as safety function, and the overall time for detection of the for example in the case of an on-chip watchdog without fault and for bringing the machine into a non-hazardous the separation described in IEC 61508-2, Annex E (Spe- state (the machine is generally stopped) is shorter than cial architecture requirements for integrated circuits the time to reach the hazard (see also EN ISO 13855). with on-chip redundancy) or test equipment that is engineered only in the form of software and accesses Owing to these restrictions and to the fact that with the OTE directly by means of a de-energizing signal gene- designated architecture, a DC of over 90% is difficult to rated by software. avg 52 6 Design of safe control systems • Subclause 6.2.14 and Annex E provide further informa- Figure 6.7: tion, in particular on the required test rate, reliability of Designated architecture for Category 3: dashed lines indicate the test equipment, initiation of the test (automatically, reasonably practicable fault detection manually, in response to a demand of the safety func- tion) and diagnostics measures. II11 LL11 OO11 6.2.6 Category 3 EIinngpauntg LLooggiikc AOusugtapnugt In addition to the requirements for Category B (e.g. the application of basic safety principles), Category 3 SRP/CS must embody well-tried safety principles and be designed II22 LL22 OO22 such that a single fault does not result in loss of the safety EIinnpgauntg LLooggiikc AOusugtapnugt function. Whenever reasonably practicable, a single fault Interconnection must be detected at or prior to the next demand of the safety function. Monitoring (reasonably practicable fault detection) Cross monitoring (reasonably practicable fault detection) Values ranging from low to high may be selected for the MTTF of each channel. Since not all faults need be D detected or the accumulation of undetected dangerous faults may lead to a hazardous situation, a low DC is consideration of a fault combination for two faults may avg the minimum requirement. Refer to subclause 6.2.14 for be sufficient.) issues relating to the test rate. Adequate measures must be taken against common cause failure (CCF). Since this is the Category with the greatest resistance to faults (the greatest contribution to risk reduction), both The requirement of single-fault tolerance does not the MTTF of each channel and the DC must be high (see D avg necessarily mean that a two-channel system must be subclause 6.2.14 for the issue of the test rate), and ade- implemented, since single-channel components with quate measures must be taken against CCF. no potential for dangerous failure (fail-safe design), for example, may also be tolerant of single faults. The same Since the differences between this Category and Category applies to systems with a high standard of monitoring 3 lie primarily in the MTTF and the DC , the designated D avg that respond to a fault sufficiently quickly by means of a architecture for Category 4 (Figure 6.8) is similar to that for dedicated shut-off path for a dangerous state to be avoi- Category 3. The unbroken lines for monitoring symbolize ded. Nevertheless, the majority of Category 3 systems are the higher DC , however. avg implemented in two-channel form. A corresponding desi- gnated architecture was selected for this reason (Figure Figure 6.8: 6.7). A purely “logical two-channel arrangement”, for Designated architecture for