Summer 2019). www.dguv.de/ifa, Webcode: e635980 2. The operating mode selected on the HMI is then checked for whether it constitutes a valid operating [3] IEC 60947-4-1: Low-voltage switchgear and control- mode and the operator is authorized to select it based gear – Part 5-1: Control circuit devices and switching upon the authorization level. elements – Electromechanical control circuit devices (2009) + A1 (2012) 3. The operating mode is signalled back to the HMI for acknowledgement (e). [4] EN ISO 13849-2: Safety of machinery – Safety-related parts of control systems – Part 2: Validation (2012) 4. Following acknowledgement of the operating mode, it is checked for its consistency with the operating mode actually selected. 308 Annex I [5] DGUV-Information: Sicherheitsbezogene Betriebs- arten an spanenden Werkzeugmaschinen der Metallbearbeitung (FB HM-073). Date of publication: 2/2016. Published by: Fachbereich Holz und Metall der Deutschen Gesetzlichen Unfallversicherung e. V. (DGUV), Mainz, Germany 2016. www.dguv.de/ifa, Webcode: d545286 309 310 Annex J: Overlapping hazards Changes with respect to the second edition (BGIA Report 2/2008e): The content below is taken from DGUV expert committee information sheet No 47. Following publication of the third edition of the standard, this information sheet was withdrawn, as its regulatory content was adopted in the standard. It has been included here for the purpose of illustrating the handling of overlapping hazards. 331111 312 Annex J Safety functions to EN ISO 13849-­‐1 where multiple overlapping hazards are present On complex manufacturing systems and machine tools, overlapping hazards may arise in working C ontents areas as a result of hazardous movements caused for example by multiple feed axis drives 1 Current situation with closed-­‐loop control. This information sheet describes a procedure, agreed with OSH experts 2 Handling of overlapping hazards in and the Institute for Occupational Safety and Health of the German Social Accident Insurance practice (IFA), by which safety functions with overlapping hazards can be modelled and analysed by application of EN ISO 13849-­‐1 [1] or IEC 62061 [2]. 1 Current situation The analysis of discrete hazards is proven good Prism magazine Q5 practice in safety technology. Probabilistic analysis (behind end panel) in accordance with EN ISO 13849-­‐1 or IEC 61508 [3, 4] and IEC 62061 and the risk assessment for a hazard situation show however that consideration must also be given to the overlap of hazards. The paper [5] provides a basis for discussion of the consequences of a probabilistic approach to the point in time machine; when actuated, they bring all 50 drives to a halt under analysis? as rapidly as possible. What components must be con- sidered in this case during implementation of the safety • What movements present hazards at the location of the function? It cannot be predicted which of the emergency- person(s)? stop devices will be actuated in order to initiate the safety function. Since the user only ever actuates one emergency • What safeguards initiate the safety function at the point stop device at any one time, safety functions SF1 to SF20 in time under analysis? are defined. The location of a person exposed to a hazard at the time the emergency stop is initiated is not known. 5.4 Determining of the required Regardless of where this person is located however, not Performance Level PL r all 50 drives present a hazard. The worst case should therefore be considered representative for all conceivable A required Performance Level PL – in technical terms, the r situations. The worst case is determined by the worst desired value – must be specified for each implemented PFH , and is therefore partly dependent upon the num- safety function3. The requirements are derived from the D ber of drives in the safety chain that generate hazardous necessary risk reduction. During definition of the risk movements at the least favourable location, and upon the reduction, consideration must also be given to the likeli- respective individual PFH values. The associated block hood and severity of accident, which may not be known. D diagram is shown in Figure 5.8. ISO/TR 14121-2 [4] describes methods for determining the required scale of the risk reduction. EN ISO 13849-1 The PFH values of the following blocks must therefore be employs one of these methods, that of the risk analysis of overlapping hazards. The present Source: WFL Millturn Technologies GmbH & Co. KG information sheet details and elaborates upon this paper. Figure 1: Owing to the wide range of hazardous situations Diagram showing the axes of a machine encountered at the human-­‐machine interfaces tool referred to above, this information sheet cannot be considered universally valid for their analysis. Overlapping hazards are characterized by the Standards developers are free to describe simultaneous action of multiple discrete hazards appropriate machine-­‐specific provisions in the upon one or more persons (or their limbs or parts of relevant product or Type C standards and have the the body) requiring protection and present at a remit to do so. hazardous location or able to reach hazardous areas (see Figure 1). Problematic in this context is that where a large number of overlapping hazards arise at a human-­‐ Discrete hazards include both the movement of an machine interface, a sufficiently low probability of individual axis, and hazards resulting for example failure of all safety-­‐related control components from the movement of an entire machine part. involved (sensors, logic, multiple actuators) can be Where the movement of a machine part is the result demonstrated only with very high analytical effort of kinematic interaction between one or more (e.g. Markov modelling), if at all. spindle and feed axis drives (such as a milling tool on the saddle of a machining centre), it may Furthermore, overlapping hazards of differing risk r therefore be regarded as a discrete hazard. (differing in their PL or SIL) make determining the probability of failure of safety functions more complex, which in turn drastically increases the required analytical effort. 313 Annex J Safety functions to EN ISO 13849-­‐1 where multiple overlapping hazards are present 2 Handling of overlapping hazards in practice risk and the proper