time takes the form, to a • In subclause D.2.5: Table D.2 (Good engineering greater or lesser degree, of a “bath-tub life curve” [1] (see practice methods) updated, including with higher Figure D.1). MTTF values for hydraulic valves operated only at D long intervals; reduced B value for “contactors with Figure D.1: 10D nominal load”; B value instead of fault exclusion for “Bath-tub life curve” of the failure rate 10D emergency-stop devices and pushbuttons (e.g. enab- ling switches). • In subclause D.2.5: comprehensive explanations inser- Early Random Wear out ted of the modelling of electromechanical components failures failures failures • In subclause D.2.6: reference inserted to the deleted Corrective: Corrective: safety factor of 10 for typical electronic components burn-in, dimensioning, optimization of preventive the process exchange D.1 What does “MTTF ” mean? D The mean time to dangerous failure MTTF describes the D reliability of the components used in a control system, and is one of several parameters that are used to deter- Failure Mission time mine the Performance Level. The MTTF is defined in rate T M or T 10D D EN ISO 13849-1 as the “expectation of the mean time to dangerous failure”. This emphasizes several aspects: λ 0 Time • The MTTF is a statistical value, i.e. a value of empirical D origin; in no way does it refer to a “guaranteed lifetime”, “failure-free time”, or the like. A greater number of components generally fail at the beginning of the mission time. These early failures domi- • The MTTF has the physical dimension of a period of nate only for a short period. Once the recommended mis- D time, and is generally stated in years. sion time has been exceeded, the failures begin to rise again. In the mid-range of the usual mission time, a pla- • Only dangerous-mode failures are relevant, i.e. failures teau of a constant failure rate is often observed, particu- that impair performance of the safety function. Should larly for electronic components. Random failures are typi- the safety function be executed by several channels cal for this phase. Even components which are affected (redundancy), the term “dangerous failure” is used more strongly by wear than by random failures, such as even if only one channel is affected. electromechanical or pneumatic components, can often be described over their mission time by the assumption of a constant failure rate estimated erring on the safe side. Early failures are generally disregarded, since com- 265 Annex D ponents exhibiting pronounced early failure patterns do stical average of approximately 63% of all initially intact not satisfy the availability requirements for a machine components have failed dangerously (not 50%, since control system and are therefore not generally signifi- although more components fail prior to attainment of the cant on the market. Suitable measures for the reduction MTTF , the remaining, intact components with residual D of early failures are premature ageing (burn-in), selec- operation times in some cases of several times the MTTF D tion, and optimization of the manufacturing process. In are of greater statistical influence). the interests of simplicity, constant failure rates within the mission time are therefore generally assumed in D.1.2 Division into classes and capping EN ISO 13849-1. The advantage of this assumption is that subsequent mathematical analysis is considerably The assumption of an MTTF for each component of rele- D simplified as a result, and forms the basis for the Markov vance to safety (where reasons are not given for a fault modelling of the designated architectures upon which the exclusion) is a condition for the following steps, by which bar chart/the simplified method of EN ISO 13849-1 are the MTTF of each channel is produced, first at block and D based. A constant failure rate results mathematically in a then at channel level. At channel level, EN ISO 13849-1 reliability curve which falls exponentially over the mission proposes division into three typical MTTF classes (see D time, and in an anticipated value for the time to failure Table D.1). These classes are intended to cancel out minor (MTTF ) which corresponds to the reciprocal of the failure differences between the calculated MTTF values, which D D rate, i.e.: in any case become irrelevant is paid to the proportions of risk reduction with and without safety- operating modes requiring manual intervention, e.g. for: related parts of a control system. Further information on the subject of risk can be found in the IFA Manual [19]. • Setting • Testing 5.2.2 Risk evaluation • Teaching/programming • Commissioning Following the risk estimation, a risk evaluation is per- • Material charging formed in order to determine whether a risk reduction is • Retrieval of the product necessary. The criteria for adequate risk reduction are • Troubleshooting and fault clearance specified in EN 12100 [3]: • Cleaning • Maintenance • Have all operating conditions and all intervention pro- cedures been considered? Further details of this process step can be found in EN ISO 12100 [3]. A range of methods exist for systematic • Have hazards been eliminated by suitable protective identification of the hazards; examples can be found measures or the risks reduced to the lowest practicable in ISO/DTR 14121-2 [4]. Possible hazards are also listed level? extensively in EN ISO 12100 [3]. Figure 5.2 shows an excerpt. • Has it been ensured that the measures taken do not give rise to new hazards? 5.2.1 Risk estimation • Have the users been sufficiently informed and warned Once all potential hazards which may be presented by the concerning the residual risks? machine have been identified, the risk must be estima- ted for each hazard. The risk associated with a particular • Has it been ensured that the protective measures taken hazardous situation can be determined from the following do not adversely affect the operators‘ working condi- risk elements: tions or the usability of the machine? a) Severity of harm • Are the protective measures taken compatible with one another? b) Probability of this harm occurring as a function of: –