as the poorest individual DC. (Whether the one measure with at least 60% must be selected in each occurrence of units without testing is permissible must case for variant memory, invariant memory and proces- be determined with reference to the relevant Category sing unit. Measures other than those stated in Table E.2 definition, see subclauses 6.2.5 to 6.2.7; the DC for the may also be employed. logic is subject to further requirements, see above.) A better and more precise value for the block DC can be Further information on determining the DC for typical test attained by weighting the individual DC value with the measures can be found for example in Tables A.2 to A.14 associated failure rate λ (= 1/MTTF ). Formula (E.1) can D D of IEC 61508-2 [1]. These tables contain the key values of also be used for this purpose as an averaging formula at 60, 90 and 99% as the maximum DC to be attained by the block level. Depending upon the accuracy, such an ana- relevant measure. With suitable unrestricted implemen- lysis also ultimately leads to an FMEA, however. tation of the measures stated, this maximum value can however generally be employed for estimation. Annex E of • Where components are cascaded, such as electro- EN ISO 13849-2 [2] describes a comprehensive example mechanical position switches connected to a safety of validation of the failure behaviour and the diagnostic module by a common conductor, it may lead to a reduc- measures on an automatic assembly machine. tion in the DC. An electrically two-channel arrangement enables certain faults of a position switch to be detec- Following determining of the DC for individual test meas- ted by the safety module from logically implausible ures and prior to calculation of the DC , the DC value per signals from the two electrical contacts. Starting of the avg block must be determined. An individual test measure machine for example is prevented following closing of generally acts upon an entire block (e.g. cross monito- the door on which the switch is defective. If, in addition ring): the discrete value can then simply be adopted for to the door on which the position switch has failed the block. Further permutations exist, however: dangerously, a further door is opened, fault detection is (depending upon the sequence) not possible. Casca- • If a block is monitored by a number of individual meas- ding thus leads to a reduction in the DC; this is depen- ures (see Figure E.2), the block DC is at least as good as dent upon factors including the number of guard doors the best individual DC. Should the measures mutually and the frequency with which they are opened. Details complement each other, a higher block DC may even be of such constellations and of estimation of the DC for possible; this DC however must then be determined by them can be found in ISO/TR 24119 [3]. Subclause 6.1 of analysis of the failures covered by each test, similar to this standard excludes PL e for cascading. If, as shown an FMEA. in Example 28 (see subclause 8.2.28), an additional contact is employed for fault detection for each position • A block consists of several units, each of which is tes- switch, fault detection is also not restricted for casca- ted by different measures, for example programmable ding, and PL e is attainable. Test 1, DC = 60% Test 1, DC = 60% Test 2, Figure E.2: DC = 60% Test 2, DC = 60% Where several tests act upon the same block, their overlap may lead to a higher overall DC (left), or it may not (right); the hatched areas represent the proportion of the detected dangerous failures; the „60% + 60% 90%“ „60% + 60% 60%“ square overall area represents all dangerous failures (100%) 290 Annex E 100 80 Untested Test for DC 60 unit 2 in DC = 99% Test for % 40 unit 1 DC = 60% 20 0 λ λ D D (Unit 1) (Unit 2 ) Figure E.3: Failure rate λ = 1/MTTF Where the DC is averaged for several units D D of one block, weighting of the individual DC values of 60% and 99% with λ leads to D „60% + 99% 90%“ a different value (90%) than for example the unweighted arithmetic mean (79.5%) The average DC for an SRP/CS (at subsystem level) is • For blocks with fault exclusion for the dangerous failure termed DC and is calculated from the DC values for all mode (an imperceptibly low failure rate λ or infinitely avg D blocks in functional channels. In contrast to the MTTF high MTTF ), the corresponding value is omitted from D D per channel, no distinction is drawn between the control the numerator and the denominator. channels; rather, an overall value is determined directly. The averaging formula weights the individual DC values • All blocks that execute safety functions in the various with the associated failure rate λ (= 1/MTTF ) of each functional channels are considered. Blocks that have D D block. This ensures that blocks with a high failure rate, i.e. the function of testing only are not considered. For a low MTTF , are given greater consideration than blocks Category 2 structures, this means that blocks of the test D the dangerous failure of which is comparatively unlikely. channel (“TE” and “OTE”) are not counted. In Category 3 The averaging formula is as follows: and 4, the average value is formed directly across both channels; symmetrization is not performed separately DC 1 + DC 2 + … + DC N per channel as it is for the MTTF D . MTTF MTTF MTTF D1 D2 DN DC = (E.1) For a detailed analysis of the influence of the tests upon avg 1 1 1 the probability of failure of the overall system, further + + … + MTTF MTTF MTTF variables must be considered in addition to the DC. D1 D2 DN These