D.2.4). Depending upon the type satisfaction of the conditions set out below, the typi- (resistive or inductive) and magnitude of the load, B cal B values [S] for position switches, guard-locking 10D 10D values lying between the extremes stated here may be devices, emergency stop devices, enabling switches and derived. For the position switches, guard-locking devices, pushbuttons stated in Table D.2 may be assumed: emergency stop devices and pushbuttons, such as ena- bling switches, listed in the table, the safety principle of • Use of basic and well-tried safety principles in design, direct opening action is generally a requirement for the application and operation of the component (see Tables electrical part. Between the second and third editions of D.1 and D.2 to EN ISO 13849-2), and the standard, certain changes took place for these com- ponents in the good engineering practice method as a result of experience gained with application in the field. 274 Annex D • The possibility of fault exclusion for direct opening and application aspects. These are special cases in which action (contacts to IEC 60947-5-1, Annex K, characte- the machine manufacturer excludes certain faults on a rized in the conceptual circuit diagrams by →) case-by-case basis for specific applications in consulta- tion with the component manufacturer. Manufacturer's data [M] should of course always be given preference over typical values stated in the standard. What is stated in the standard? – Electro mechanical Regarding modelling, the standard states that the compo- components in accordance with Part 2 of the standard nents “can be estimated as a Category 1 or Category 3/4 subsystem depending on the number of electrical output Table D.8 of EN ISO 13849-2 applies to switches, such contacts and on the fault detection in the subsequent as electromechanical position switches and manually SRP/CS. Each contact element (including the mechanical operated switches, and can therefore be applied to all actuation) can be considered as one channel with a res- the electromechanical components referred to above. The pective B value.” following conditions are stated for exclusion of the fault 10D “failure of contacts to open”: Although this statement refers directly only to emergency stop devices and enabling switches, the principle can • The switch must satisfy IEC 60947-5-1:2003, Annex K, also be applied to other electromechanical components. i.e. it must possess contact elements with direct ope- ning action. It appears at first glance inconsistent for single-channel or two-channel modelling to be determined by the num- • Fault exclusion applies only up to a maximum of PL d. ber of electrical output contacts, despite the fact that PL e requires redundant components, i.e. a second fault exclusion for direct opening action can be assumed (position) switch (exception: emergency-stop devices). for mechanically linked contact elements. However, the statement that the B value of each channel is to apply This yields, irrespective of the number of electrical contact 10D to the contact element including its mechanical actuation elements, the following result for position switches (with shows this to be a strategy intended to present, in the and without separate actuator), guard-locking devices, simplest way possible, the complex interrelationship of enabling switches and pushbuttons: mechanical and electrical elements in the electromecha- nical components referred to. The focus lay here not upon • Up to PL d: fault exclusion is permissible and may also the details of the electromechanical design, but upon a apply to the mechanical aspects, subject also to con- recipe that is as simple as possible: firmation by the manufacturer. Modelling as a Category 3 encapsulated subsystem (with single-fault tolerance) • An electromechanical component employing one con- and direct statement of PL d and PFH of zero. The D tact element with direct opening action that satisfies coupling between PL and PFH must be cancelled for D the above conditions can be modelled as part of a Cate- this purpose in SISTEMA (under Subsystem, “PL” tab). gory 1 subsystem. In the functional channel, the subsys- tem contains a block with the corresponding B value. • PL e: no fault exclusion (for mechanical and electrical 10D aspects) is permissible • An electromechanical component employing (at least) two contact elements with direct opening action that For emergency stop devices in accordance with IEC 60947- satisfies the above conditions can be modelled as part 5-5, fault exclusion with respect to the “failure of contacts of a Category 3 or 4 subsystem, depending upon fault to open” is permissible for mechanical aspects up to detection in the downstream SRP/CS. In each of the two PL e, provided a maximum number of actuations is con- functional channels, the subsystem contains one block sidered. In the past, 6,050 actuations to IEC 60947-5-5 with the corresponding B value. was em ployed in this context as the number of operation 10D cycles over the lifetime. Beyond the general case, EN ISO 13849-1 adds that “in some cases it may be possible, that the machine builder As mentioned in the preceding subclause, the permissi- can apply a fault exclusion according to EN ISO 13849-2, bility of fault exclusions in principle is of only limited rele- Table D.8 considering the specific application and envi- vance in practice. ronmental conditions of the device.”. The formulation of fault exclusion for an electromechanical component is The requirements stated in the standard are applied therefore on the one hand an issue for the component below to frequently used electromechanical components. manufacturer, who alone is familiar with the detail of its mechanical design. At the same time, it must be consi- dered with respect to the application whether fault exclu- sion is permissible in consideration of ambient, operating 275 Annex D D.2.5.2 Position switches as well as the switch itself. The relevant requirements of EN ISO 13849-2, Annex A must also be satisfied for Electromechanical position switches manufactured in the requisite fault analysis, including of possible fault accordance with IEC 60947-5-1 employing one or two exclusions. In accordance with EN ISO 13849-2, Table D.8, electrical contact elements with direct opening action a maximum of