...................................................................196 8.2.27 Hydraulic valve control (subsystem) – Category 3 – PL e (Example 27) .................................................198 8.2.28 Position monitoring of movable guards – Category 4 – with reference to Category formance of the safety function proper in the individual 2, however, a general guideline is that its MTTF should channels remains assured. D be at least half that of the individual (symmetrized, see below) channel, and consideration should also be given Definition of the blocks and channels goes hand-in-hand to systematic failures and CCF. with determining of the Category, and is the first step in quantification of the PL. Further values are required 6.2.9 Safety-related block diagram for this purpose: the evaluation of the component reli- ability (MTTF ), of the tests (DC ), and of the relevance D avg The safety-related block diagram is based upon the more of common cause failures (CCF). Further information on familiar reliability block diagram [33]. Common to both the journey “from the conceptual schematic diagram diagrams is the principle that the (safety) function may to the Performance Level”, specifically, on deriving the continue to be performed provided a chain of blocks safety-related block diagram, can be found in SISTEMA that have not failed dangerously remains intact from left Cookbook 1 [34]. This cookbook also introduces the term to right along the functional connecting lines. However, “encapsulated subsystem”. This refers to a subsystem the safety-related block diagram presents additional test for which the manufacturer already states the PL, PFH D mechanisms, such as the cross monitoring of redundant and Category, and the precise internal structure and channels, or tests performed by separate test units. A para meters of which are not transparent. These stated general example of a safety-related block diagram is parameters require observance of the conditions for use shown in Figure 6.9. specified by the manufacturer, which for example may 54 6 Design of safe control systems include the implementation of external diagnostics. It is limited here to low PLs; refer for example to Table D.8 of presented in the safety-related block diagram at subsys- EN ISO 13849-2 and Annex D of the present report. If fault tem level in single-channel form as a circle within a block exclusion applies, failure rates (MTTF ) and monitoring D (see subsystem “SB1” in Figure 6.9). It contributes to measures (DC) need not be considered for such compo- quantification of the PL only through its parameters PFH nents. D and PL; statement of the Category is merely informative. 6.2.11 Mean time to dangerous 6.2.10 Fault considerations and fault exclusion failure – MTTF D In a real-case control system, there is no limit whatsoever The reliability of the individual components from which to the number of theoretically possible faults. Evaluation the control system is constructed makes a decisive con- must therefore be limited to the faults that are relevant. tribution to its overall reliability. The MTTF (mean time D Certain faults can be excluded if the following points are to dangerous failure) is thus also considered in the PL as considered: a reliability value. It is clear that “failure” in this context refers to component defects that result in the implemen- • The technical improbability of their occurrence (a proba- ted function not or no longer being performed. The other bility that is several orders of magnitude lower than that parts of the term require explanation, however: of other possible faults and the risk reduction that is to be attained) • “Mean” indicates that the value is a statistical mean: it does not refer to a specific component, but is defined • Generally accepted technical experience, irrespective of as an anticipated value for the mean lifetime of the typi- the application under consideration cal component. In this context, the anticipated value for an individual component can be considered equal to • The technical requirements relating to the application the mean value of a large number of components of the and to the specific hazard same type. The value is not therefore a guaranteed mini- mum lifetime in the sense of failure-free period. This The component faults that may occur and those that can approach employing a mean value is also reflected in be excluded are described in EN ISO 13849-2. The fol- the fact that the lifetime values are not normally adap- lowing points must be observed: ted to the conditions of use (e.g. load, temperature, climate), provided the components are employed within • The fault lists constitute a selection only. Where neces- the conditions of use specified for them. It is generally sary, new fault models must therefore be created (for assumed here that the higher load in one application example for new components), or further fault types of a device is averaged out by a lower load in another considered, depending upon the application. This can application. Should higher loads be anticipated in all be determined for example by means of an FMEA. applications (e.g. owing to extreme temperatures), how- ever, these conditions must be considered when the • Secondary faults are evaluated as a single fault together MTTF is determined. D with the initial fault giving rise to them, as are multiple faults with a common cause (CCF, common cause fail- • “Time” indicates that the reliability is expressed in ures). terms of a time in the sense of a lifetime. The MTTF is D generally indicated in years (abbreviated “a”). Other • The simultaneous incidence of two or more faults diffe- forms of notation that may be converted to an MTTF D ring in their cause is considered extremely unlikely, and include failure rates or (switching) cycles. Failure rates need not therefore be taken into account. are generally indicated by the small Greek letter λ (lambda) and expressed in the unit “FIT” (= 10-9/h, i.e. Further information on fault exclusion can be found in failures per billion component hours). The relation- Annex C and in Part 2 of EN ISO 13849. Should faults be ship between λ and MTTF is expressed, at a