S4 S2 K1 K2 S4.1 S4.2 ACKNOWLEDGEMENT L Q1 K4 I0 I1 I2 I3 I4 I5 I6 Inputs K3 Q1 PLC Outputs +U B T1 O0 O1 O2 O3 * ESPE * Fast stop FI K3 ON K2 with S3 STO +U Q1 B 1st shut-off path ESPE Start/Stop 2nd shut-off path (delayed) STO1 K2 +U STO2 B STOP S1 K1 +U M1 B Q1 M K1 C1 Q2 with drop-out delay Brake 3 * optional Safety function • Safety-related stop function: following a stop command, an emergency stop command or tripping of a protective device, the drive is halted (SS1-t – safe stop 1, STO is activated with a time delay). Functional description • The hazardous movement is interrupted redundantly if either the stop button S1 or the protective device K3 – shown in the circuit diagram as electro-sensitive protective equipment (ESPE) – is activated. The drive is halted in an emergency following actuation of the emergency stop device S4. In all three cases, stopping is initiated via the output O3 of the PLC K4 by deactivation of the “Start/Stop” input on the frequency inverter (FI) T1. Redundantly to this process, the input “STO2” on T1 is deactivated by de-energization of the contactor relay K1 (with the use of the capacitor C1 for drop-out delay). A further shut-off path exists on the “STO1” input on T1 via the output O2 of the PLC K4: this also causes the brake Q2 to be applied. The first shut-off path is thus implemented directly by the PLC K4; conversely, the second shut-off path employs relay technology and delayed drop-out. The timer settings for O2 in the PLC program and for K1 are selected such that the machine movement is halted even under unfavourable operating conditions. 168 8 Circuit examples for SRP/CS S4.1 K4 T1 Stop T1 S4.2 K2 K1 C1 • Should a “fast stop” input with a particularly short deceleration phase be available on the FI, an ESPE may be connected to it if desired, as shown on the circuit diagram. This option is not considered further below. • In the event of failure of the PLC K4, the “Start/Stop”, “STO1” or “STO2” frequency inverter inputs, the contactor relay K1 with drop-out delay or the contactor relay K2, stopping of the drive is nevertheless assured, since two mutually independent shut-off paths are always present. Failure of the contactor relays K1 or K2 to drop out is detected – at the latest before renewed start-up of the machine movement – by the feedback of the mechanically linked break-contact elements to the PLC inputs I3 and I4. Design features • Basic and well-tried safety principles are observed and the requirements of Category B are met. Protective circuits (such as contact protection) as described in the initial paragraphs of Chapter 8 are implemented. • Owing to the use of an FI with STO, the contactor Q1 is no longer absolutely essential for de-energization of the supply voltage. The FI must be suitable for ramping up and braking. • For comparison of command disconnection on the “STO1/STO2” inputs on the FI, a duration of sufficient length is selected to allow for variation in the drop-out delay of K1. • The contactor relays K1 and K2 possess mechanically linked contact elements in accordance with IEC 60947-5-1, Annex L. • The contacts of the stop button S1 and of the emergency stop device S4 are direct opening contacts in accordance with IEC 60947-5-1, Annex K. • The standard component K4 is employed in accordance with the information in subclause 6.3.10. • The software (SRASW) is programmed in accordance with the requirements for PL c (downgraded owing to diver- sity) and the guidance in subclause 6.3.10. • If the brake Q2 is provided for functional reasons only, i.e. it is not involved in performance of the safety function, it is disregarded in the calculation of the probability of failure, as in this example. A condition for this procedure is that coasting down of the drive in the event of a failure of the stop function, in which case de-energization is effected by means of STO alone, must not be associated with an unacceptably high residual risk. The involvement of a brake in performance of the safety function in conjunction with the use of an FI is described in Example 23 (revolving door control). • The ESPE K3, for example in the form of a light curtain, satisfies the requirements for Type 4 to IEC 61496-1 and IEC 61496-2, and for PL e. Calculation of the probability of failure • The probability of failure PFH of safe stopping initiated by the emergency stop device S4 or by the ESPE is calcu- D lated. The “fast stop” function of the FI and the facility for de-energization of the power supply to the FI via Q1 are not considered in the calculation of the probability of failure of the safety function. • The FI T1 with STO is available for purchase as a safety component; its probability of failure is added at the end of the calculation (1.5 · 10-8 per hour [M]). The stop function of the FI is modelled in the first channel of the block diagram (T1stop). The FI with STO would in fact be modelled in the second channel of the block diagram; a model with a turnkey safety component including PFH in a single channel is however not covered by the standard. The D FI T1 and its STO function are therefore considered as a single subsystem. This estimation therefore errs on the safe side. 169 8 Circuit examples for SRP/CS Safe stop initiated by the emergency stop device S4: • MTTF : the following MTTF values are estimated: 50 years for K4 and 100 years for the stop function T1stop of D D the FI [E]. At a B value of 100,000 cycles [S] each and an n of 12 cycles per year, the MTTF for S4.1 and S4.2 is 10D op D 83,333 years.