[4] IEC 61508-5: Functional safety of electrical/electro- nic/programmable electronic safety-related systems – Part 5: Examples of methods for the determination of safety integrity levels (2010) 300 Annex H: SISTEMA: the software utility for evaluation of SRP/CS H.1 What is SISTEMA capable of? effects of the changes assessed with little effort. The final results are summarized in a report, which can be printed The SISTEMA software utility (SISTEMA is the German out. acronym for safety of control systems on machines) pro- vides developers and testers of safety-related machine H.2 How is SISTEMA used? controls with comprehensive support in the evaluation of safety in the context of EN ISO 13849-1. The tool, which SISTEMA processes basic elements from a total of six runs on Windows, enables the structure of the SRP/CS hierarchical levels: the project (PR), the safety function to be modelled based upon “designated architectures”, (SF), the subsystem (SB), the channel (CH)/test channel and ultimately permits automated calculation of the reli- (TE), the block (BL) and the element (EL). The relationship ability values at various levels of detail, including that of between them is shown briefly below (Figure H.1). the attained Performance Level (PL) and the probability of failure (PFH ). The user first opens a project, in which the machine or D hazard zone that is to be analysed in greater detail can be Relevant parameters, such as the risk parameters for defined. Safety functions are then assigned to the project. determining the required PÜerformance Level (PL), the The safety functions can be defined and documented, r Category of the SRP/CS, the measures against common and a PL assigned to them. The PL actually attained by r cause failure (CCF) on multi-channel systems, the mean the parameterized SRP/CS is determined automatically time to dangerous failure (MTTF ) and the diagnostic from the subsystems which – in a series arrangement D coverage (DC) of components and blocks, are entered – execute the safety function. Each subsystem is based step by step in input dialogs. Once the required data have upon a “designated architecture” from the standard, as a been entered into SISTEMA, the results are calculated and function of the selected Category. The architecture deter- displayed virtually instantly: each parameter change is mines, among other things, whether the control system reflected immediately on the user interface with its impact is of single-channel, single-channel tested or redundant upon the entire system. Users are for the most part spared design, and whether a special test channel must be consi- time-consuming consultation of tables and calculation dered during evaluation. Each channel can be subdivided using formulae (calculation of the MTTF by means of in turn into any desired number of blocks, for which either D the parts count method, symmetrization of the MTTF for an MTTF value and a DC value are entered directly, or – D D each channel, estimation of the DC , calculation of the on the lowest level in the hierarchy – the values for the avg PFH and PL, etc.), since these tasks are performed by the individual elements of which the block is composed. D software. This enables parameter values to be varied and BL = block PR = project SF = safety function EL1 EL2 SB = subsystem EL = element CH = channel EL3 EL4 I1 L1 O1 I2 L2 O2 TE = test channel TE OTE Figure H.1: Hierarchy levels considered in SISTEMA 301 Annex H User-friendly library functions complete SISTEMA's range log in the editing view. Each input dialog is further sub- of features. Many manufacturers of components provide divided into different areas by tabs. The final tab in each libraries of their products' data. Links to these libraries input dialog contains a table summarizing all lower-level can be found on the IFA's website (www.dguv.de/ifa, branches and listing the main information. If, for example, Webcode: e92603). Users can however create libraries of a block in the tree view is marked, this table shows all their own, in which they can store subsystems that they elements contained within the block, together with their have developed themselves, or frequently used compo- MTTF and DC values. D nents. Libraries can be stored either locally, or centrally on servers. The tree view also shows status information for each basic element. The status information takes the form of H.3 The SISTEMA user interface a coloured marker adjacent to the branch. A red cross indicates that a condition of the standard is not satisfied, The SISTEMA user interface is divided into four areas a limit value is exceeded, or that a required value cannot (see Figure H.2). The greatest part of the user interface is be calculated owing to a general inconsistency. A warning occupied by the workspace in the centre. Depending upon is output in this case. A yellow dot indicates the presence which view is active, the workspace contains an editable of a message (as for example when a basic element has input dialog or a partial view of the overview document. not yet been assigned a name). All other basic elements The content of the active view is determined by the basic are marked with a green tick. The colour marking is also element selected from the hierarchy described above, always inherited by the branches higher up in the hierar- which is selected from a tree view on the left-hand side. chy, red having the highest and green the lowest priority. Each branch in the tree view represents one basic ele- All warnings and information concerning the active basic ment. Basic elements can be created, deleted, moved or element are displayed in the message window below the copied on different levels in the tree view. The details of workspace. the selected basic element are entered in the input dia- Figure H.2: SISTEMA user interface The area below the tree view shows the main context In addition to its flexibility, the SISTEMA user interface is information for the selected basic element. This informa- notable for its ease of