approximation that on As with other methods of quantification, evaluation to average, only half of all failures are dangerous. With con- EN ISO 13849-1 assumes a constant failure rate through- sideration for the problem of obtaining reliability values, out the mission time of the component for all MTTF D EN ISO 13849-1 lists a number of typical values. These values. Even if this does not directly reflect the failure are however very conservative estimates, and their use is behaviour, as for example in the case of components therefore recommended only if the data sources indica- subject to heavy wear, an approximate MTTF value that D ted above are not available. In addition to MTTF values remains valid throughout the component's mission time D 56 6 Design of safe control systems is nevertheless determined in this way by an estima- would of course be to take the lower value; results that tion erring on the safe side. Early failures are generally are better whilst still being safe are however produced by disregarded, since components exhibiting pronounced the following averaging formula (C1 and C2 refer here to early failure patterns do not satisfy the availability the two channels, which are symmetrized): req uirements for a machine control system and are there- fore not generally significant on the market. The advan- ⎠ ⎞ ⎟ tage of this procedure is that the MTTF is always equal to 2 1 ⎟ D MTTF = MTTF + MTTF − (2) D 3 DC1 DC2 1 1 the reciprocal of the associated dangerous failure rate λ . + D Since the dangerous failure rates λ D of the components in ⎞ MTTF DC1 MTTF DC2 ⎠ a block can simply be added together, the MTTF values D of the components involved (N components with running index i) give rise to the MTTF of the block as follows: Where the channels concerned are balanced, the MTTF D D value calculated in this way corresponds to the MTTF D N 1 N 1 value of one channel. Where they are imbalanced, the λ =Σ λ bzw. = Σ (1) D i=1 Di MTTF i=1 MTTF result is an average MTTF D than can be no less than two- D Di thirds of the better value. In this scenario, the effect may arise in addition that the better value was previously The same relationship applies to calculation of the MTTF capped to an MTTF of 100 years (2,500 years in the case D D of each channel from the MTTF values of the associated of Category 4), and as a result the symmetrized value D blocks. Once the MTTF for each channel is known, a is less than 100 years (2,500 years for Category 4). It is D further simplification is made in the form of a classifica- therefore generally more effective to implement channels tion. The calculated values are assigned to three typical of balanced reliability wherever possible. Irrespective of classes (Table 6.3). the number and form of the channels, this method always produces an MTTF value for a single control channel D Table 6.3: which, averaged over the control system, indicates the Classification of the MTTF of each channel level of component reliability. D MTTF for each channel 6.2.14 Diagnostic coverage of test and D Description Range monitoring measures – DC Not suitable 0 years ≤ MTTF < 3 years D A further variable with a major influence upon the PL are Low 3 years ≤ MTTF < 10 years D the (self-)test and monitoring measures in SRP/CS. Effec- Medium 10 years ≤ MTTF < 30 years D tive tests for example permit some compensation to be High 30 years ≤ MTTF ≤ 100 years D made for poor reliability of the components. The quality Permissible only in 100 years < MTTF ≤ 2,500 years D of the tests is measured in EN ISO 13849-1 by the diag- Category 4 nostic coverage (DC). The DC is defined as the proportion of detected dangerous failures among all conceivable dangerous failures. The reference quantity may be a com- A mean (important: not guaranteed) lifetime of less than ponent, a block, or the entire SRP/CS. In the last of these three years is deemed not reasonable for safety engi- cases, the DC is the average diagnostic coverage DC , avg neering components. Other than for Category 4, values which has an important function in the simplified quanti- exceeding 100 years may not be substituted; this prevents fication of the PL by means of the bar-chart method. the component reliability being overstated in compari- son with the other main influencing variables such as As at many other points in the standard, two methods the structure or tests. Should a figure of less than three exist for calculation of the DC : one more precise but avg years actually be produced for a channel, the components more complex; the other simpler, involving a series of should be replaced with more reliable alternatives, since estimations erring on the safe side. The precise, com- even PL a cannot otherwise be attained. Values over plex method involves a failure mode and effects analysis 100 years for the mean lifetime are not unusual, but owing (FMEA) and is based upon the DC definition. In this case, to “capping”, do not have any bearing upon the PL above the dangerous detectable (DD) and dangerous undetec- this value, since the maximum value of 100 years (the table (DU) failure modes for each component are deter- maximum value in Category 4 is 2,500 years) is substi- mined, together with their proportions of the total failure tuted in this case for the component reliability. rate of the component. Finally, summation and formation of the ratio produces the DC value for the unit under con- If several channels are involved in a control system, it sideration: is not initially clear which value should be employed as representative for the entire system. A cautious approach 57 6 Design of safe control systems Σ