confir- By their nature, these approaches constitute major sim- mation that the safety principles were observed during plifications of the actual, complex relationships. A very design, and must make all relevant information available low load current in particular, combined with infrequent concerning the conditions of use and operation. The actuation, can for example lead to cold welding of elec- de signer of the SRP/CS and the user of the machine trical contacts. These effects should however be avoided (operating party) are in turn responsible for observing by the required application of basic/well-tried safety prin- all safety principles concerning implementation and ciples. These principles include the suitability of both the operation of the component. Provided these conditions mechanical and electrical component characteristics and are met, the typical values cited in Table D.2 can be their adaptation to the anticipated load. used for calculation of the MTTF , if applicable via the D B . The MTTF value of 150 years for hydraulic control D.2.5.1 Modelling of electromechanical compo- 10D D components, the reasoning for which is stated above, is nents (position switches, guard-locking extended here to include mechanical components. This devices, emergency stop devices, enab- secondary value can be used when reasoning cannot be ling switches and pushbuttons) provided for a fault exclusion but when the use of basic/well-tried safety principles is assured. In addition, It has been seen in practical application of the standard B values for electromechanical components are stated to date that considerable uncertainty exists regarding the 10D that can be converted to an MTTF value in accordance modelling of electromechanical components. This can D with the procedure also described above involving the also be seen from the fact that the language between the average number of actuations per year n . two parts of the standard differs rea- sonable risk reduction by means of technical protective Detection Processing Switching measures is not possible; in the majority of cases, safegu- ards will however be required. In this context, safety func- From risk analysis (EN ISO 12100) 1 Identification of safety functions (SFs) 2 Specification of characteristics of each SF For each 3 Determination of required PL (PL) r SF Figure 5.5: To implementation Return and determining of the PL if further Excerpt from the iterative process for (Figure 6.1) SFs exist the design of the dafety-related parts of (Figure 7.1) control systems (SRP/CS) 28 5 Safety functions and their contribution to risk reduction 5.3.1 Definition of safety functions f) Prevention of entrapment of persons The necessary safety functions are defined in considera- g) Stopping of the closing movement controlled by two- tion of both the application and the hazard. For example, hand operation in the event of intervention in the dan- if flying debris must be anticipated, a light curtain will ger zone by a second person (initiated by means of a be an unsuitable solution, and an arrester (guard) will light curtain) be required. A safety function is therefore a function by which measures (including measures in the control tech- Compound safety functions are frequently employed, as nology) reduce the risk presented by a particular hazard to in the example in subclause 5.7. The movement is initi- an acceptable level. In the absence of relevant provi sions ally braked to a halt by the electronic drive, after which in a Type C standard, the safety functions are de fined by a mechanical holding brake is applied. The two tables the designer of the machine, e.g.: below provide information on possible safety functions. Table 5.1 summarizes the safety functions according to a) Controlled stopping of the movement and to some extent in this op context: whereas the first part selects an approach invol- All values in the table relate to dangerous failures only, ving B within the good engineering practice method 10D as expressed by the “D” suffix. It has generally been (see Table D.2), the second part addresses possible fault assumed here that only half of all failures are dangerous. exclusions. This is exacerbated by the fact that for many The third edition of the standard however deviated from of these components, a clear distinction cannot be made this rule for “contactors with nominal load”, and the pro- between their mechanical and electrical parts. Conse- portion of dangerous failures (75% break faults or short- quently, the requirements and information in both parts circuits) stated in Table K.2 of the IEC 60947-4-1 product of the standard will first be presented below in general standard [5] was used for conversion. This leads to a terms; a pragmatic modelling approach will then be pro- reduced B value compared to that in the second edition posed for the various electromechanical components that 10D of the standard, namely 1,300,000 rather than 2,000,000 draws primarily upon Part 1 of the standard. Part 2 can cycles. Consequently, the values stated here may well also be applied as an alternative; implementation often appear more optimistic than those indicated on manu- fails in practice however owing to the fact that complete facturers' data sheets, which relate to all fault types that fault exclusion for the mechanical and electrical part could impair functionality in the sense of availability. On requires confirmation by the manufacturer – for example some electromechanical components, for example relays, in the data sheet – or precise knowledge of the conditions contactor relays and contactors, the electrical load of the of use. In practice, the two conditions are often not met. contacts is a major factor determining the B value, as 10D is frequently confirmed by observations in the field. At What is stated in the standard? – Electro mechanical low electrical load (typically resistive load), described by components in accordance with Part 1 of the standard EN ISO 13849-1 as up to 20% of the rated value, substan- tially better values are obtained. The mechanical rather With the good engineering practice method introduced than the electrical durability was assumed decisive in above, EN ISO 13849-1:2015 proposes that subject to this case (see subclause