ments with reference to the requirements of the relevant of the user interfaces, application of design guidelines standard governing two-hand controls, EN 574 [55]. The such as the following may be advantageous: VDI/VDE underlying conditions to be met are stated in the system 3850, Development of usable user interfaces for technical specification and confirmed by validation. The verification plants [31]; the VDMA guide to software ergonomics and now being performed confirms proper implementation the design of user interfaces [53]; and EN ISO 9241-11, of the terms, in this case by calculation of the PL with the Ergonomics of human-system interaction – Part 11: Usabi- aid of the SISTEMA software tool. This PL is attained in the lity [54]. calculation of the probability of failure in consideration of all quantifiable aspects. All requirements concerning Finally, this subclause is intended to confirm the view the qualitative aspects, such as the behaviour under fault that the use of SRP/CS – and also software modules and conditions of the safety function, including the measu- tools – that have already been certified or type-examined res for fault detection implemented in the safety-related considerably simplifies and accelerates verification and software, the measures against systematic failures and validation of circuitry for safety functions. the behaviour under environmental conditions, are also adequately met for PL e. 7.8 Verification and validation with reference to the example of a paper The above conclusions were clearly reached at different cutting guillotine with diverse points in time during development, or could in fact only redundancy in the logic control have been reached during certain phases. Demonstration (Category 4 – PL e) of satisfaction of the EMC requirements, for example, is not possible until a prototype has been fabricated. The general description of verification and validation of The validation/verification activities below do not consti- safety functions and PL is supplemented in this subclause tute a sequence that must be strictly followed. Rather, the by an explanation of the V&V activities for the practical intention here is to demonstrate the work entailed by the example of the paper cutting guillotine described in sub- relevant phases of the V&V model with reference to the clauses 5.7 and 6.5. It is assumed at this point that all example of the SF2. necessary documents and a prototype of the machine are available. Based upon the documents, the steps of veri- 7.8.2 Validation of the safety-related require- fication and validation will be shown here for a represen- ments (refer also to Block 7 in Figure 7.1) tative example of the safety functions, “SF2 – Con trolled location of the operator's hands outside the danger zone Fault lists during a hazardous movement” (subclause 5.7.3). The available documents include the verification and valida- The PL is determined based upon the fault lists according tion plan, which describes the activities required in the to EN ISO 13849-2 [6]. various phases (subclause 7.1.2). Owing to the level of the hazard potential, it is advisable to have the work per- Documents formed by independent persons, for example from a diffe- rent department (subclause 7.1.1). As already stated in subclause 7.1.4, analysis/testing is conducted with reference among other things to circuit This subclause observes the definition of verification diagrams, parts lists, the complete specification, functio- and validation stated in the introduction in clause 7. Fre- nal description, and also the design description, fault/ quently however, the boundaries are blurred, and precise failure mode effects analysis, the software specification classification difficult. An example is testing, for example and software documentation. of software. These tests are also referred to in the refe- rence as validation, the purpose of which is to determine Documentation whether the program or parts of it fulfil their function (as stated in the specification). These steps could also be All analysis and test results shall be documented in wri- described as verification. ting. The criteria for evaluation of whether a test has or has not been passed are important and are contained in 7.8.1 Verification of the attained PL the verification and validation plan. (refer also to Block 6 in Figure 7.1) Validation of the safety function An estimation of the risk showed that a Performance Level PL of e shall be one standard, even though the functions may involve In low demand mode, the dimension for the safety is the different technologies. Part 1 of EN ISO 13849 is accompa- average probability of a dangerous failure of a safety func- nied by a Part 2 with the title of “Validation”. The present tion at the point in time of the demand: PFD . In the high edition, published in 2012, also considers the current avg Machinery Process sector sector Figure 3.1: Scope of generic SRP/CS employing standards gover- • Electrical/electronic/ SRECS SIS ning functional programmable safety; SRP/CS: electronik systems safety-related part • Hydraulic systems IEC 62061 IEC 61511 of a control system; • Pneumatic systems SRECS: safety-rela- • Mechanical systems … ted electrical control system; SIS: safety E/E/PE system in the form of instrumented sys- EN ISO 13849 IEC 61508 • Programmable electrical/ tem; E/E/PE system: electronic/programmable electrical/electro- electronic systems nic/programmable electronic system 2 In this context, functional safety means that potential hazards that arise as a consequence of failures of a control system, i.e. a malfunction, are dealt with. 3 In addition, deterministic requirements are imposed that must be satisfied in the level concerned. 4 In the second edition of IEC 61508:2010 – but not in its sector standard, IEC 62061 – the PFH was reformulated as the “average frequency of a dangerous failure of the safety function”. The original abbreviation (PFH) was however retained (without the “D” suffix in IEC 61508). 15 3 Generic standards concerning the functional safety of machinery control systems Probability of a dangerous failure per hour (PFH ) D 10-4 10-5 10-6 10-7 10-8 3 · 10-6 EN ISO 13849-1 PL a b c d e Figure 3.2: The Performance SIL No 1 2 3 (4) correspondence Level (PL) and IEC 62061 Safety Integrity (IEC