use and intuitiveness. Context help tion comprises the PL, PFH , MTTF , DC and number of on the right-hand side is intended to facilitate the lear- D D avg CCF points of the higher-level subsystem, and the PL, PL ning process. r and PFH of the higher-level safety function (this applies, D of course, only to basic elements on lower hierarchy levels). The consequences of changes in the displayed parameters are thus displayed immediately. 302 Annex H H.4 Where can SISTEMA be obtained from? After registering, you can download the SISTEMA software free of charge from www.dguv.de/ifa, Webcode e34183. • Logic consideration of the drives critical to the operator‘s safety. The associated functional diagram is shown in Figure 5.6. • Drive If more than one drive is involved in the hazardous Figure 5.7 shows the functional diagram and blocks of the movements in the danger zone under consideration, the safety function SF3. hazards are considered overlapping. If the number of drives to be considered is too high, the sum of the PFH Figure 5.7: D values of the individual drives may once again be a total Stopping of the drive when guard door 3 is opened PFH that is too high for the required PL of the safety D function. The revised standard makes provision for consi- Positioning monitoring deration of overlapping hazards. Accordingly, the hazards of guard door 1 considered in the safety function in question can under certain circumstances be reduced to discrete hazards, i.e. Positioning monitoring the hazardous machine movements can be reduced to the of guard door 2 movements of discrete parts of the machine. Whether this is possible in a given case must be determined during the Positioning monitoring Logic Drive risk assessment. Assistance in this context is provided by of guard door 3 Annex J of the present report and by [24]. Positioning monitoring of guard door 4 Positioning monitoring of guard door 5 2 Possible faults in the electrical system are assigned to the relevant blocks. 31 5 Safety functions and their contribution to risk reduction Example 3: The examples show the advantage of a “local approach” Safety function “Stopping of all drives when the emer- for definition of a safety function, in which the following gency-stop device is actuated” (see subclause 5.5) are considered: Twenty emergency-stop devices are installed on a larger • At what location are persons present at the SISTEMA may be shared with third parties. Modification of SISTEMA is however not permitted. SISTEMA is supplied in the following language versions: English, German, French, Italian, Spanish, Japanese and Finnish. Instructions on the use of SISTEMA can be found in the Getting Started (Webcode m1221153), the SISTEMA cookbooks (Webcode e109249) and the help file installed with SISTEMA. Infor- mation and guidance on EN ISO 13849-1 can be found under Webcode e89507 and at www.dguv.de/ifa/13849e. 303 304 Annex I: Operating mode selection safety function I.1 Introduction Since an error in selection of the operating mode may lead to a direct increase in the risk, selection of the ope- Work on a machine generally entails manual intervention rating mode must be regarded as a safety-related func- in the danger zone, in addition to automatic operation. tion. It is also listed as such in Table 8 of the standard. Since such intervention, required for example for setup, This raises the question whether the control aspect of troubleshooting or cleaning, is generally associated with operating mode selection is part of each safety function an elevated risk, different operating modes are employed implemented on the machine, or whether operating mode depending upon the task to be performed. selection can be regarded as a safety function in its own right. As in the procedure described in subclause 5.3.2, Selection of an operating mode activates safety functions in which overlapping hazards within a given danger zone on the machine that reduce the respective prevailing risk can be divided into hazards presented by individual parts to an acceptable level. From a safety perspective, an ope- of the machine, it is expedient for operating mode selec- rating mode is thus defined in terms of the safety func- tion to be treated as a safety function in its own right. This tions that are activated and those that are deactivated also prevents the components used for operating mode when the operating mode is selected. Errors in selection selection from further increasing the average probability of the operating mode may lead to the required safety of a dangerous failure per hour (PFH ) in each individual D functions not being activated: if a different operating safety function. mode is activated to that selected, other safety functions are activated rather than those required for the planned As stated in the introduction, an operating mode is cha- task. In the worst-case scenario, an error in operating racterized in safety terms by the safety functions that are mode selection may even lead to no safety functions at all activated by its selection. Accordingly, the safety function being active. The increase in the risk associated with the of operating mode selection can be defined as follows: two cases necessitates a safety analysis of the operating activation of the safety functions required for the selected mode selection. operating mode. Operating mode selection is normally implemented by It must now be determined how the required Performance electromechanical selector switches. The Machinery Level PL of the operating mode selection function is to be r Directive [1] sets out a number of requirements for this set. In some cases, the PL of operating mode selection r purpose. For example: is already stated in the product standard used. Where this is not the case, it is logical for the highest PL of all r • A selector switch that can be locked in each position safety functions that can be activated on the machine to must be provided for operating mode selection be applied. This rule is based upon the fact that failure of the operating mode selection function can