employed for cal- tion signal (e.g. in the event of wire breakage). culation rather than exploitation of the 5% tolerance for a DC of “high” and substitution of a rounded 99% (for the • Fault detection by automatic tests: in this case, tests avg tolerances for DC and MTTF , cf. Note 2 in Tables 4 and 5 of – differing between the two channels – are performed D the standard). Dropping below the 99% mark for Category that are capable of detecting faults at an early stage and 4, still within the tolerance band, initiates a warning mes- of initiating the safe state independently of the respec- sage by SISTEMA, however. Use of the precise MTTF value tive adjacent channel. D of 31.4 years for calculation yields a result comparable to that from calculation with the rounded value of 30 years • Testing by redundant hardware: the diversity by design for MTTF “high”. The result is an average probability of provides additional control of faults caused by environ- D a dangerous failure per hour of 9.7 · 10-8 per hour (see mental influences that differ in their effects upon the Figure 6.18). different channels. This is now followed by evaluation of the non-quantifiable • Use of contactor relays with mechanically linked con- qualitative aspects for determining the PL, firstly for syste- tacts: status detection of suitable contacts enables dan- matic failures. gerous faults of the contactor relays and in some cases of other circuit components to be detected. 6.5.7 Systematic failures • Program sequence monitoring: the ASIC for example is With its diversity-oriented approach for the logic control, used to monitor the program sequence of the microcon- the selected design of the control system employs a troller channel. highly effective measure against the influence of syste- Figure 6.18: Determining of the PL by means of SISTEMA 81 6 Design of safe control systems The reader's attention is drawn in particular to two details • THC designed to prevent defeating and thus circumven- concerning systematic failures, the first relating to the tion of the controlled location of the operator's hands application, the second to the design process: 6.5.9 Requirements concerning the software, • During design of the hydraulic system for paper-cutting specifically SRESW guillotines, consideration must be given to the inci- dence of paper dust. Contamination of hydraulic fluid The following description is of a model implementation with paper dust may for example jeopardize the safe of safety-related firmware for the microcontroller K1. The function of a paper-cutting guillotine. For this reason, software is embedded software (SRESW) for which the PL r particular attention must be paid to effective filtration of is e. Owing to the diversity-oriented approach of the logic the pressure medium. In addition, the ingress of paper control – the second channel takes the form of an ASIC dust into the hydraulic system from outside must be – the requirements in accordance with the note in sub- prevented, for example by tank vent filters and wiper clause 4.6.2 of the standard can be scaled down: “When rings on cylinder rods. using diversity in specification, design and coding, for the two channels used in SRP/CS with Category 3 or 4, PL e r • Fault-avoidance measures during development of the can be achieved with the above-mentioned measures for ASIC in accordance with the ASIC development life cycle PL of c or d.” r of IEC 61508-2. This standard makes provision for a V model for the development of an ASIC, following the The design process for the firmware is based upon V model familiar from software development. the V model in Figure 6.11, and is embedded in the manufacturer's certified quality management system. 6.5.8 Ergonomic aspects Based upon the specification for the safety-related con- trol system as a whole, the specification for the software In this example, a safety-related interface exists between safety requirements for the firmware (safety related the user and the control system: the two-hand control software requirements specification) is first written. This (THC) device, with actuators S1 and S2. Certain ergonomic document describes the contribution made by the firm- aspects must be considered here in order to prevent any ware to the safety functions of the machine, the required person from being endangered, either directly or over response times with regard to K1, responses to detected time as a result of impairing strain, during the intended faults, interfaces to other subsystems, dependencies use and reasonably foreseeable misuse of the machine. upon operating modes, etc. In addition, all fault-avoi- For the majority of machines, these user interfaces can dance measures required under subclause 6.3.2 of the be checked by means of the ergonomic machine design standard for PL c or d are defined. The specification is checklist, DGUV Informative publications 209-068 and then reviewed, for example by the safety project manager, 209-069 [30]. Aspects to be observed in this context and amendments made if appropriate. Once the specifi- include the following: cation has been approved, system design can commence. • Height and orientation of the actuators in relation to the Software architecture: an operating system is not operator in stalled on the microcontroller; instead, a number of tasks are defined which, controlled by simple task • Legroom and area of reach during operation, normally management, are executed by timer interrupt at defined in a standing position intervals. Some low-priority tasks are reserved for the standard functions of the paper-cutting guillotine, whilst • Arrangement matched to the operating task and good the high-priority tasks are executed by the safety-related accessibility outside the danger zone functions specified above. The determinacy of these task calls is necessary for the required high synchronicity of • Ease of observation of the cutting process from the the two channels and the short response times. The cyc- location of the THC lical self-tests for the control of random hardware failures are executed during task idle times. • Minimum dimensions and shape of the actuators (ergonomic design in consideration of the requirements The design