subclause 7.5 concerning the information for use. Instead, references are provided to standards gover- ning the content and presentation of information for use. Verification and validation refer to quality assurance The process of assessment of a safety function in its measures for the avoidance of faults during the design implementation by SRP/CS is therefore a combination of and implementation of safety-related parts of control verification and validation steps that deal with both the systems (SRP/CS) that perform safety functions. Part 2 of SRP/CS as a whole, and specific aspects of them. The EN ISO 13849 [6] in particular deals comprehensively as a portal for the IFA‘s information on the functional safety of The purpose of the present revised IFA Report is to machine controls (Figure 2.1). The free SISTEMA software describe the application of EN ISO 13849 and in particular application (the German acronym “SISTEMA” stands for its practical implementation with reference to numerous safety of controls on machinery) is available for download model solutions. Particular attention has been attached from this portal, as are the SISTEMA project files for the to the presentation and interpretation of the new or circuit examples shown in Chapter 8. Future extensions revised requirements set out in the third edition of EN are planned to provide up-to-date assistance. ISO 13849-1. Neither the explanations nor the examples i should be regarded as an official national or European comment upon (DIN) EN ISO 13849-1. Rather, the report is For readers already familiar with BGIA Report 2/2008e, a compilation of thirty-five years‘ experience gained at the a brief summary is provided at the beginning of each Institute for Occupational Safety and Health of the Ger- chapter of this report of the essential changes with man Social Accident Insurance (IFA) in the assessment of respect to the BGIA Report 2/2008e. safety and control equipment employing various forms of technology, and the institute‘s many years of participation 1 As an alternative to EC type examination, the current Machinery Directive enables the manufacturer to perform his own conformity assessment procedure in conjunction with internal production monitoring, in areas in which harmonized standards exist. 12 2 Introduction Figure 2.1: This website provides links to all practical tools concerning the safety of machine controls 13 14 3 Generic standards concerning the functional safety of machinery control systems In addition to EN ISO 13849, which is discussed in this demand or continuous mode with terms verification and validation are also described below this subject. as V&V activities. Verification encompasses analyses and tests of SRP/CS Note: this chapter (Chapter 7) addresses the verification and their sub-aspects that have the purpose of determi- and validation process for SRP/CS in the sense of a pro- ning whether the results attained by a phase of design cess for demonstrating compliance with the standard or development satisfy the requirements for the phase EN ISO 13849. Details of the methods of stated V&V concerned, i.e. whether for example the circuit layout activities cannot be “taught” here, nor can all sub-tests corresponds to the circuit design, or whether the require- required for conformity of the product with the Machinery ments relevant to the intended applications are compiled Directive be discussed, such as those concerning pro- comprehensively (in full) in the specification. tection against electric shock, the technical (electrical, hy draulic, pneumatic) equipment, or ergonomics. Validation refers to demonstration of whether suitability is assured with regard to the imposed requirements. In 7.1 Verification and validation procedure other words, examination is performed during or at the end of the development/design process of whether the Figure 7.1 (see Page 86) shows the relevant details specified functional and design requirements upon the of the iterative process for SRP/CS design set out in safety-related part of the machine control have in general EN ISO 13849-1 [5], Figure 3, which deals with the activi- been attained, or in the context of EN ISO 13849, whether ties of verification and validation. the SRP/CS satisfies the relevant requirements of this standard for each safety function. 85 7 Verification and validation Figure 7.1: V&V activities of EN ISO 13849-1 To redesign and Iteration: From implementation repeat deter- Further and determining of the PL minationof the PL SFs (Figure 6.1) (Figure 6.1) (Figure 5.5) Evaluation of PL for SRP/CS concerning Verification 5 category, MTTF , DC , CCF D avg Software and systematic failure for Verification: no 6 each PL ≥ PL? r SF ja Validation: no 7 Requirements met? ja All SFs no 8 analysed? To risk analysis yes (EN ISO 12100) Figure 7.2 can be used for planning of the execution of The focus lies here upon the specified properties of the V&V activities including the corresponding relevant tasks safety functions and the requirements for the specified and a reasonable constructive procedure. The figure is Performance Level (refer also to subclauses 7.3 and 7.4). taken from Part 2 of EN ISO 13849, but has been simpli- EN ISO 13849-2 also specifies that ergonomic design of fied graphically in order to present the V&V activities more the user interface(s) shall be addressed by the V&V pro- clearly. cess. The most important aspects of the verification and valida- These activities should be begun as early as possible tion procedure are explained below. during development/design, in order to detect and elimi- nate faults and deviations to the specification in time. The 7.1.1 Principles for verification and validation personnel tasked with measures for verification and vali- dation should if possible not be involved in the process Verification and validation are intended to assure con- of designing the safety-related parts, i.e. they should be formity of the design of the SRP/CS with the reference able to act independently of the design and development standards. Since EN ISO 13849-1 is harmonized under process. The parties concerned may be other persons, the Machinery Directive as a Type B standard for machine departments or bodies that are not subordinate to the controls, the V&V activities must demonstrate that each design department within the organization's hierarchy. safety-related