be taken in an emergency 2.9 Behaviour of the machine in the event of energy loss 3 Required Performance Level(s) (PL) r 3.1 Reference to existing documentation concerning identified hazards and risk assessment for the machine 3.2 Results of the risk assessment for each identified hazard or hazardous situation and determination of the safety function(s) required in each case for risk reduction 4 Safety functions (information applies to each safety function; see also Table 4 in [23]) – Description of the function (“input – logic – output“) including all functional characteristics (refer also to Tables 5.1 and 5.2) – Activation/deactivation conditions or events (e.g. operating modes of the machine) – Behaviour of the machine when the safety function is triggered – Conditions to be observed for re-starting – Performance criteria/performance data – Process (timing behaviour) of the safety function, including response time – Frequency of actuation (i.e. demand rate), recovery time following demand – Other data – Adjustable parameters (where implemented) – Classification and assignment of priorities in the event of simultaneous demand upon and processing of multiple safety functions – Behaviour in the event of a power failure – Functional concept for separation or independence/freedom of reciprocal action from non-safety functions and further safety functions 5 Required information for the SRP/CS design 5.1 Allocation of the SRP/CS and the form of technology by which the safety function is to be implemented; intended equipment 5.2 Selection of the Category, designated architecture (structure) in the form of a safety-related block diagram and description 5.3 Description of the interfaces (process interfaces, internal interfaces, user interfaces, control and display elements, etc.) 5.4 Behaviour at switch-on, implementation of the required starting and restarting behaviour 5.5 Performance data: cycle times, response times, etc. 43 6 Design of safe control systems 5.6 Behaviour of the SRP/CS in the event of component failures and faults (achieving and maintenance of the safe state), including timing behaviour 5.7 Failure modes of components, modules or blocks that are to be considered; where applicable, reasoning for fault exclusions 5.8 Concept for implementation of the detection and control of random and systematic failures (self-tests, test circuits, monitoring arrangements, comparisons, plausibility tests, fault detection by the process, etc.) 5.9 Quantitative aspects 5.9.1 Target values for MTTF and DC D avg 5.9.2 Switching frequency of components subject to wear 5.9.3 Frequency of measures for fault detection 5.9.4 Mission time, where different from the assumption upon which the designated architecture is based (20 years) 5.10 Operating and limit data (operating and storage temperature range, humidity class, IP degree of protection, values for resistance to shock/vibration, EMC values, supply data with tolerances, etc.) (IP = ingress protec- tion; EMC = electromagnetic compatibility) 5.11 Generic standards to be applied for design (for the equipment, for protection against electric shock/ hazardous shock currents, for resistance to environmental conditions, etc.) 5.12 Technical and organizational measures for protected access to safety-related parameters and to SRP/CS characteristics (protection against tampering, access protection, program/data protection) and for protection against unauthorized operation (key switch, code, etc.), for example in non-standard operating modes 5.13 General technical requirements and organizational framework for commissioning, testing and acceptance, and for maintenance and repair In order to be valid, such a specification must be veri- for machines required in accordance with the European fied prior to the next design step. Verification primarily Machinery Directive 2006/42/EC [2]. concerns completeness, correctness, intelligibility and freedom from contradictions. It is clearly advantageous 6.1.2 Systematic failures for verification to be performed, for example by way of an inspection, by a party not involved in the project. If safety- In contrast to random component failures, systematic related software is employed, this safety requirements failures have causes that can be eliminated only by modi- specification must form the basis for a dedicated software fication for example of the design, the manufacturing specification (see subclause 6.3.2). process, the operating methods or the documentation. They arise at some point in the life cycle of a product, for The specification is the first document to be created in example as a result of errors in the specification or the the procedure for the design of the SRP/CS. The docu- design, or during modification of the SRP/CS. The imple- mentation is of great importance in the interests of veri- mentation of multi-channel structures and analysis of the fiable development. It must be considered that the task probability of component failures are important elements of updating a product may lie with a party other than the in the design of safety technology. Should fundamental original designer. Details concerning the necessary docu- aspects not be considered, even the most favourable mentation in the context of the iterative design process of figures for the probability of failure are of no benefit. If, for the SRP/CS can be found in subclause 6.3.8 concerning example, a product is not used correctly or is used in the software, and in subclauses 7.1.4 ff. The reader is remin- wrong environment, a risk of systematic failure may exist. ded at this point that the documents must be unambi- This fact is addressed by EN ISO 13849-1 in conjunction guously identifiable; version management is therefore with Part 2, when it requires that possible systematic essential. The contents of the information for use are ulti- failures also be considered for attainment of a PL. Essen- mately of major importance for the proper implementa- tially, it can be said that many of the basic and well-tried tion of safety functions. EN ISO 13849-1, Clause 11 lists the safety principles are already effective in preventing syste- minimum items of information that must be included in matic failures (see Annex C). These principles, which sup- the information for use. The content of the manufacturer's plement Annex G of the standard, should be considered internal technical documentation for the SRP/CS is listed in accordance with EN ISO 13849-2. in clause 10 of the standard. Requirements concerning the documentation are also set out in legislation. Box The informative Annex G of the standard contains