least the Performance Level PL required for the r selection system engineered in this way as PL c or higher operating mode selection function. is not generally possible in the first instance. One means by which the required safety can nevertheless be attained Operating mode selection by means of electronic selec- is described in subclause 4.6.4 of the standard, which tion equipment is described below in further detail with states provisions concerning software-based parameteri- reference to an example (Figure I.2). zation. Since selection of the operating mode by an elec- tronic selection system is equivalent to software-based I.4 Operating mode selection with use of parameterization, the safety of this selection system an electronic key system as the access can be assessed against this subclause of the standard. system – PL e The method described in subclause 4.6.4 encompasses selection of the operating mode by the operator, checking I.4.1 Safety function of the selected operating mode in the safe control sys- tem, and confirmation of the selected operating mode by Activation of the safety functions required for the selected the operator. This ensures that the integrity of the data operating mode. used for parameterization is maintained along the entire communication chain and that corruption is detected. In I.4.2 Structure particular, should a fault occur in one of the components of the selection equipment, it is prevented from selecting The access system in the example takes the form of an or confirming an incorrect operating mode. electronic key system. The personal authorization level for access is stored on the electronic key. Activation system The selection system comprises three components: an The actual safety function of operating mode selection, HMI with touchscreen for displaying and selecting the i.e. activation of the safety functions required for the operating modes available in the applicable authorization selected operating mode, is performed on the activation level, a safety PLC for checking the authorization level and system. Where electronic selection equipment is used, the selected operating mode, and a standard PLC for com- only the activation system is considered in quantifica- munication between the components. tion of the operating mode selection when the selection system – as described above – is evaluated against the requirements of software-based parameterization. Access system Selection system Activation system Electronic HMI key d Reader SPLC e Figure I.2: a Example of operating mode selection b with use of an electronic key system as PLC the access system; HMI: human-machine interface; PLC: programmable logic c controller (standard); SPLC: safety PLC; a to e: information flow (see functional description) 307 Annex I The safety PLC forms the activation system. It is res- 5. The safety functions required for the operating ponsible for changing the operating mode and thus for mode are activated. activating the safety functions required for the operating mode. The safety PLC also ensures that one operating I4.4 Safety analysis mode and the associated safety functions are active at any given time. The reader in this example satisfies the structural require- ments for Category 3. This means that a single fault can- I.4.3 Functional description not lead simultaneously to an incorrect output on the data interface and the relay output. Single faults are detected Key system/standard PLC by high-quality coding of the authorization level, cross monitoring in the reader, and anticipation in the safety Insertion of a key into the reader causes the authorization PLC. The reader combined with the electronic key serving level to be read out. The authorization level defines, as as an access system thereby attains a level of safety com- a function of the technical qualifications of the operator, parable to that of the key of electromechanical selection which operating modes the operator is to be entitled equipment. to select. The reader is connected to the standard PLC through a data interface. Once the key data have been The process described for selection, checking and confir- read out, the authorization level is transmitted to the HMI mation of the operating mode and programming of this (a) and the safety PLC (b). process satisfy the requirements for software-based para- meterization in accordance with subclause 4.6.4 of the In addition to the data interface, the reader features a standard. relay output that is switched off as long as no key is inser- ted or the key data cannot be read out. The relay output is The SRASW software of the safety PLC is programmed connected to a safe input on the safety PLC (c). in accordance with the requirements for PL e and the guidance in subclause 6.3. HMI The safety PLC is a safety component for use in PL e. The operating modes to which the key provides entitle- ment by virtue of the authorization level are displayed on The average probability of a dangerous failure of the ope- the HMI. Following selection of an operating mode, it is rating mode selection safety function is derived from the transmitted via the standard PLC to the safety PLC (d). The PFH for the activation system, which in the example is D safety PLC sends a feedback message regarding the saved the safety PLC. operating mode over the same path back to the HMI, where it must be acknowledged by the operator. More detailed references Safety PLC [1] Directive 2006/42/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2006 on machinery, As soon as a signal change takes place on the safe input and amending Directive 95/16/EC (recast) OJ EU of the safety PLC following insertion of the key, a process (2006) L 157, pp. 24-86 is launched in the safety PLC at the end of which the selected operating mode is activated. The process com- [2] Werner, C.; Zilligen, H.; Köhler, B.; Apfeld, R.: Safe prises the following discrete steps: drive controls with frequency converters. IFA Report 4/2018e. 3rd ed. Published by: Deutsche Gesetzliche 1. The authorization level stored on the key is checked Unfallversicherung e. V. (DGUV), Berlin, Germany for its validity. 2019 (will be published in