the machine is that of cutting stacked Risk estimation sheets of paper or similar materials. The machine is charged manually by a single person. Depending upon The dynamic press force ofthe clamping bar (hazard G1) the site of installation and the width of the machine, how- is sufficiently great to cause not only reversible crushing ever, the presence of other persons in the vicinity cannot injuries, but also broken bones. For hazard G2, amputa- be excluded. tion of limbs must be assumed. During manual positio- ning of the paper stack, hazard G3 may lead to injury to the hands or forearms on the stationary knife. These inju- ries are however generally reversible. 35 5 Safety functions and their contribution to risk reduction The operators‘ exposure to hazard is very high, since they 7. The mechanical components for guiding the knife and regularly (cyclically) intervene manually in the danger the clamping bar are linked such that in its top rest zone in the course of routine work. position, the knife is shrouded by the clamping bar. The drop speeds of the clamping bar and knife (hazards 5.7.3 Required safety functions G1 and G2) are very high, with the result that the operator has virtually no means of avoiding the hazard. When the In consideration of all operating modes and all manual knife is stationary (hazard G3), the operator is able to interventions, the following safety functions are required: avoid or limit harm. • SF1 – STO (safe torque off), for avoidance of unexpected The probability of a hazardous event occurring as a result start-up of technical failure is not known. The incidence and seve- rity on comparable machines is however low; the safe- • SF2 – Controlled location of the operator‘s hands out- guards implemented here are therefore evidently ade- side the danger zone during a hazardous movement quate. Should the risk analysis for a safety function yield a higher PL than that actually implemented on the compa- • SF3 –Detection of intervention by further persons in the r rable machines, the PL can in principle be reduced by one danger zone by means of ESPE (electro-sensitive pro- r level. However, since the safety functions on comparable tective equipment), e.g. a light curtain, and immediate paper-cutting guillotines are achieved with the highest PL, interruption of the cutting operation a reduction of the PL will not be possible in this case (see r subclause 5.7.4). • SF4 – Automatic stopping of all movements following each individual cut or following completion of the auto- Risk evaluation matic cutting sequence In consideration of all operating conditions and all possi- • SF5 – Reduction of the dynamic press force for the clam- bilities for operator intervention, a risk reduction is found ping bar during the “indicate cut” function to be required. • SF6 – Automatic return of the clamping bar and knife to Inherently safe design their initial positions following interruption of a cutting operation It is not possible for the dynamic press force of the clam- ping bar and the energy of the knife to be reduced, as this Note: The principle of overlapping hazards could be would impair the functionality of the machine. An arrange- applied to the machine parts of knife and clamping bar ment and design of the machine that would prevent the (see subclause 5.3.2). In this case, SF1, SF3, SF4 and SF6 operator from reaching into the danger zone is also not would be divided up such that dedicated safety functions possible, since this is precisely where the operator must would be defined separately for the knife and the clam- line up the stack of paper. ping bar. In the present case however, this division is not made, since owing to the low number of components in Thefollowing measures can however be taken: SF1 to SF6, the required PFH can still be attained when D these safety functions are grouped. 1. Shrouding of all points of access to the danger zone except on the operator side. Characteristics of the safety functions 2. Avoidance of sharp edges and corners. The cut must be interrupted immediately should the light curtain be penetrated. The safety function SF3 therefore 3. Assurance of a suitable working position and accessi- takes priority over SF2. For SF5, the maximum permissible bility of the controls. force for the clamping bar during the “indicate cut” func- tion must be specified (see [27]). 4. Ergonomic design of the machine. 5.7.4 Determining of the required 5. Avoidance of electrical hazards. Performance Level PL r 6. Avoidance of hazards presented by the hydraulic The PL must be determined for each safety function. If r equipment. the situations in which the individual safety functions are used are analysed, evaluation of the risk parameters S, F and P is seen to be similar for the safety functions SF1 to SF6: 36 5 Safety functions and their contribution to risk reduction • S2 – serious, generally irreversible injury of these machines have already been implemented with PL e, as specified in [28]. The result of the risk analysis is • F2 – continuous presence in the danger zone; the fre- therefore confirmed by the situation in practice; a possi- quency is therefore greater than once every 15 minutes ble reduction in the PL is not indicated. Figure 5.11 shows r the documentation and risk graph in the SISTEMA soft- • P2 – evasion of a hazardous situation is virtually impos- ware application for the SF1 safety function. sible An adequate risk reduction has been achieved for the In accordance with the riskgraph in Figure 5.9, this hazard G3, “Cutting by the knife in the rest state”, by evaluation yields a required Performance Level PL of e. mechanical coupling of the knife and the clamping bar. r The incidence and severity of accidents on comparable A safety function is not required. machines is low. The safety functions considered here Figure 5.11: Documentation and risk graph for SF1 37 5 Safety functions and their contribution to