redundant channels C1 and C2 by D D by summation of the λ contributions of all N safety- means of an averaging formula (this formula can be deri- D related components present in the block concerned (the ved mathematically by calculation of the MTTF value for a D contributions of identical components can simply be two-channel system without diagnostics but with known grouped): MTTF values of both channels – MTTF and MTTF [5]).D DC1 DC2 This completes the successive grouping of the MTTF λ D = 1 2 ∑ N λ i or λ D =∑ N λ Di (D.7) values of all components involved in the control sys D tem. i=1 i=1 The result is a value for the typical reliability of the com- ponents present in the control system, without conside- Since, as described above, the standard assumes con- ration of the redundancy, diagnostics or CCF (common stant failure rates, the λ failure rates can be converted cause failures, cf. Annex F). Given that the MTTF is already D D to MTTF values simply by formation of the reciprocal. capped to 100 years (2,500 years in the case of Category D Based upon this relationship, the MTTF value of a block 4) for each channel involved, assignment of the MTTF D D can easily be derived from the MTTF values of its com- values to one of the three classes, “low”, “medium” or D ponents. An example of application of the parts count “high”, is expedient only after symmetrization. The sym- method can be found in Chapter 6. metrized value is substituted in the numerical calculation of the PL as a parameter in addition to the Category, the D.5 Series arrangement of blocks in a average diagnostic coverage and the measures against channel and capping of the MTTF common cause failure. Depending upon the Category to D be attained, a minimum MTTF value of three years (for D If MTTF values or λ failure rates are available for each Category B, 2 and 3) or 30 years (for Category 1 and 4) is D D block, the MTTF for each channel can also be calculated also required. D in accordance with formula (D.7) by summation of the fail- ure ratesof all blocks involved in a channel. It is assumed References in this case that the dangerous failure of any block in the chain of blocks constituting a channel is also to be treated [1] Birolini, A.: Qualität und Zuverlässigkeit technischer as a dangerous failure of the channel. Since under certain Systeme: Theorie, Praxis, Management. 3rd edition. circumstances however, downstream blocks are capable Springer, Berlin, Germany 1991 of detecting a dangerous failure of upstream blocks, this assumption constitutes an estimation erring on the safe [2] Bork, T.; Schaefer, M.: Aus Aktivität wird Vor- side. The capping rule of the standard takes effect in this sicht – Sinn und Unsinn der Quantifizierung. phase of determining the MTTF : with the exception of O + P Ölhydraulik und Pneumatik 51 (2007) No 3, D Category 4, each MTTF of a channel that mathematically pp. 78-85. www.dguv.de/medien/ifa/de/pub/grl/ D exceeds 100 years is routinely reduced to the maximum pdf/2007_016.pdf value of 100 years. In Category 4, the cap is 2,500 years. The purpose of this rule is to prevent the component reli- [3] Schuster, U.: Untersuchung des Alterungsprozesses abilities from being overstated in comparison with the von hydraulischen Ventilen. BGIA-Report 6/2004. other dimensions relevant to the PL, such as the architec- Published by: Hauptverband der gewerblichen ture, tests and common cause failures. Berufsgenossenschaften (HVBG), Sankt Augustin, Germany 2004. www.dguv.de/ifa, Webcode: d6362 D.6 Symmetrization of multiple channels [4] Weibull, W.: A statistical distribution function of wide As soon as a control system involves two channels (as applicability. J. Appl. Mech. 18 (1951), pp. 292-297 is generally the case for Categories 3 and 4) exhibiting different MTTF values, the question arises as to which of [5] IEC 60947-4-1: Low-voltage switchgear and control- D the MTTF values for each channel is to be used for deter- gear– Part 4-1: Contactors and motor-starters – Elec- D mining the PL with the aid of the bar chart. For this issue, tromechanical contactors and motor-starters (2009) too, EN ISO 13849-1 has the answer in the form of a simple + A1 (2012). formula: 282 Annex D [6] DGUV Information 203-079: Auswahl und Anbrin- [9] SISTEMA Cookbook 4: When the designated gung von Verriegelungseinrichtungen. Published by: architectures don't match. Published by: Deutsche Deutsche Gesetzliche Unfallversicherung (DGUV), Gesetzliche Unfallversicherung e.V. (DGUV), Berlin, Berlin, Germany. August 2014 – updated edition Germany 2015. www.dguv.de/ifa, Webcode: e109249 December 2015. http://publikationen.dguv.de/ dguv/udt_dguv_main.aspx?FDOCUID=26231 [10] Goble, W. M.: Control systems safety evaluation and reliability. 3rd ed. Published by: The International [7] Principles of testing and certification for interlocking Society of Automation (ISA), Research Triangle Park, devices with solenoid guard-locking, Principles of North Carolina 2010, www.isa.org testing GS-ET-19E. Published by: DGUV Test, Prüf- und Zertifizierungsstelle Elektrotechnik, May 2015. www.bgetem.de, Webcode: 12700341 [8] Principles of testing and certification for electro- mechanical enabling switches and enabling devices with and without start-up controllers, Principles of testing GS-ET-22E. Published by: DGUV Test, Prüf- und Zertifizierungsstelle Elek trotechnik, July 2016. www.bgetem.de, Webcode: 12700341 283 284 Annex E: Determining of the diagnostic coverage (DC) Figure E.1: Changes with respect to the second edition Illustration of the diagnostic coverage (BGIA Report 2/2008e): ∑ λ DU • Reference inserted to possible reduction of the DC by DD DC = cascading, e.g. of electromechanical position switches DD S ∑(λ +λ ) • Two DC measures deleted from Table E.2: redundant DD DU shut-off path without monitoring of the actuator, and redundant shut-off path with monitoring of one of the actuators by either logic or the test equipment may also be detectable or undetectable; the distinction • Figure E.3 amended is irrelevant, however, since the safe state isassumed in • Conditions amended for the simplified method in both cases. Category 2 (testing upon demand as an alternative to testing 100 times as frequently as demand; test chan- The