the contact be earth conductor. This side of the device is not therefore welded. used for example for deactivation ofa hazardous move- ment. A short-circuit to ground cannot therefore result • Limiting of electrical and/or mechanical parameters in (undetected) failure of a shut-off path. Force, distance, time, and rotational and linear speeds • Transient suppression are reduced to permissible values by electrical, mechani- cal or fluid power equipment. The objective is to reduce A facility for the transient suppression (RC element, the risk by improved control of hazards. diode, varistor) is connected in parallel with the load (not in parallel with the contacts). C.4.2 Examples of well-tried safety principles in fluid power technology C.3.4 Examples of basic safety principles in programmable systems/software • Secure position EN ISO 13849-2 does not describe basic safety principles The moving element of a component is held mechani- for the use of programmable systems and software. The cally in a possible position (frictional restraint is not basic measures for SRESW and SRASW in accordance with sufficient). Force must be generated in order for the subclauses 4.6.2 and 4.6.3 of the standard may however position to be changed. be regarded as basic safety principles (refer also to sub- clause 6.3). A further measure is monitoring of execution • Use of well-tried springs of the program in order to detect a defective sequence of commands/software modules, which may occur despite EN ISO 13849-2, Table A.2 contains detailed require- all care taken during verification and validation. Program ments for well-tried springs. sequence monitoring is generally implemented by means of an external, cyclically retriggered watchdog that must C.4.3 Examples of well-tried safety principles be capable of placing the SRP/CS in a defined safe state in electrical technology in the event of a defective execution of the program. • Limiting of electrical parameters C.4 Well-tried safety principles Limiting of voltage, current, energy or frequency, for the Tables A.2, B.2,C.2 and D.2 in the informative annexes of avoidance of an unsafe state EN ISO 13849-2 address well-tried safety principles. Well- tried safety principles are employed in order to minimize • No undefined states or exclude critical faults or failures and thus to reduce the probability of faults or failures with an influence upon the Undefined states in the SRP/CS must be avoided. The safety function. SRP/CS must be designed such that its state can be predetermined during normal operation and under all anticipated operating conditions. This is to be achieved for example by the use of components with defined response behaviour (switching thresholds, hysteresis) and with a defined sequence of operations. 261 Annex C C.5.1 Example of a well-tried component • Separation of non-safety and safety functions in mechanical technology In order to prevent unexpectec influences upon safety functions, the functions concerned are implemented • Spring separately from non-safety functions. A spring is deemed to be a well-tried component when C.4.4 Examples of well-tried safety principles the provisions in EN ISO 13849-2, Table A.2 concerning in programmable systems/software well-tried safety principles for the application of well- tried springs and the technical provisions for spring EN ISO 13849-2 does not describe well-tried safety prin- steels to ISO 4960 [8] are observed. ciples for the use of programmable systems and soft- ware. The additional measures for SRESW and SRASW C.5.2 Examples of well-tried components in accordance with subclauses 4.6.2 and 4.6.3 of the in fluid power technology standard may however be regarded as well-tried safety principles (refer also to subclause 6.3). A further well-tried EN ISO 13849-2 states no well-tried components for fluid safety principle is the use of self-tests for the detection power technology. The property of being well-tried is of faults in complex components such as microcont- particularly dependentupon the application in question rollers. Table E.1 of the standard for estimation of the and upon observance of the requirements for well-tried level of diagnostic coverage lists self-tests of this kind, components in Category 1 and the requirements of such as memory tests and CPU tests. Information on the EN ISO 4413 [9] and EN ISO 4414 [10]. implementation of such tests can also be found in a BGIA Report [7]. Depending upon the application, “fault detec- Examples of well-tried components for safety-related tion by the process” and “fault detection by comparison applications are: between channels” may be regarded as well-tried safety principles. • Directional control valves, stop valves and pressure valves C.5 Well-tried components C.5.3 Examples of well-tried components Well-tried components for mechanical and electrical in electrical technology systems are dealt with by Tables A.3 and D.3 of the infor- mative annexes of EN ISO 13849-2. Well-tried components • Fuse are used in order to minimize or exclude critical faults or failures and thus to reduce the probability of faults or fail- Fuses and miniature circuit-breakers are equipment for ures that impact upon the safety function. In accordance protection against overcurrent. They interrupt an elec- with the provisions for Category 1, general criteria for a trical circuit (de-energization principle) in the event of well-tried component are that it: an excessively high current, caused for example by an insulation fault. A distinction must be drawn between a) has been widely used in the past with successful fuses and circuit breakers. Lead fuses have for deca- results in similar applications; or des proved effective in protecting against overcurrent. Comprehensive provisions exist governing fuses [11; 12]. b) has been made and verified using principles which Provided they are used as intended and are correctly demonstrate its suitability and reliability for safety-rated, failure of fuses can virtually be excluded. related applications. • Emergency switching off device/emergency stop device Complex electronic components (such as PLCs, micropro- cessors, ASICs) cannot be regarded as well-tried in the Devices for emergency switching off and emergency sense of the standard. Classification as a well-tried com- stop in accordance with EN ISO 13850 [12] are employed ponent is also dependent upon the application: a compo- for the initiation of action in an emergency. Both types nent may be considered well-tried in