approach speeds of parts of the human body (2010). ISO, Geneva, Switzerland 2010 179 8 Circuit examples for SRP/CS Figure 8.45: Determining of the PL by means of SISTEMA 180 8 Circuit examples for SRP/CS 181 8 Circuit examples for SRP/CS 8.2.23 Revolving door control – Category 3 – PL d (Example 23) + B3 Motion B1 detector + + S1 Pressure-sensitive + Control START edge unit K3 K2 K1 Inputs/outputs Inputs/outputs (cid:31) μC Self-tests Data (cid:31) μC Self-tests cross-check Inputs/outputs Inputs/outputs B2 K3 L T1 Light barrier system Set value FI with Fast stop STO STO1 STO2 + K3 G1 Q1 M1 M n 3 Figure 8.46: Revolving doorG2 control employing n microcontrollers Safety functions • Safety-related stop function: when the pressure-sensitive edge is actuated, the revolving movement of the door is halted (SS1-r – safe stop 1 with ramp monitoring). This safety function is shown in the safety-related block diagram. • Safely limited speed (SLS): when a person or object is detected by the light barrier, the speed of the revolving door is reduced and safely limited. 182 8 Circuit examples for SRP/CS G1 K1 T1s B1 T1 G2 K2 K3 Q1 Functional description • The revolving movement of the door is initiated only once the control system has been switched on by the pushbut- ton S1. In normal operation, the command for the revolving movement is issued by the motion detector B3 located on the door. The frequency inverter T1 is actuated jointly by the two microcontrollers K1 and K2. Each microcontrol- ler (µC) contains a central processing unit (CPU) in the form of a microprocessor, and working memory (RAM) and read-only memory (ROM). K1 controls the functions of setpoint assignment, STO1, and fast stop (T1s). K2 actuates STO2, and the brake Q1 can be released by means of the contactor relay K3. The rotary encoders G1 and G2 signal the motor speed to K1 and K2 respectively. The redundant speed monitoring is required for both safety functions (ramp monitoring and SLS), and is also used for monitoring of the frequency inverter T1. • Faults in the pressure-sensitive edge or light barrier are detected in the associated control units. The same applies to faults in the control units themselves, which are detected by internal monitoring. Faults in the components of the microcontrollers are detected by the performance of self-tests and by data comparison. When detected, faults are controlled via K1 and/or K2, leading to the door‘smovement being halted by T1 and/or Q1. The wings of the door can be opened manually in order for trapped persons to be freed. • Owing to redundant processing channels, a single fault does not result in loss of the safety functions. The combi- nation of undetected faults may lead to loss of the safety functions. Design features • Basic and well-tried safety principles are observed and the requirements of Category B are met. Protective circuits (such as contact protection) as described in the initial paragraphs of Chapter 8 are implemented. • The pressure-sensitive edge serves as a safeguard against crush, shear and entrapment points. The pressure- sensitive edge and the control unit are treated as a single unit (B1). The subsystem B1 satisfies the requirements of EN ISO 13856-2 in Category 3 and of EN ISO 13849-1 for PL d. Faults in the signal generator of the pressure-sensitive edge or in the supply conductors must be excluded or be detected via the control unit (pressure-sensitive edges operating on either the break-contact or make-contact principle may be employed). Following actuation and sub- sequent release of pressure upon a pressure-sensitive edge, the rotary movement begins again with a time delay. The pressure-sensitive edge possesses an adequate deformation path and an adequate range of action. • The light barrier has the function of leading, non-contact safeguarding of hazard zones. The light barrier system B2 satisfies the requirements for Type 4 to IEC 61496-1 and IEC 61496-2 and for PL e to EN ISO 13849-1. The reduced, safely limited revolving speed that is assumed following detection of a person or an object by the light barrier is increased again to the normal speed following a preset timeout. The supply conductors to the transmitter and receiver are laid separately or with protection. • Duringstart-up of the door‘s revolving movement for the first time, start-up tests are performed. The tests include, for example, tests of the microcontroller blocks (microprocessor, random-access and read-only memory), input and output tests, and checking of driving of the motor by the frequency inverter (including testing of the fast stop func- tion and of STO1/STO2). A brake test is also performed, in which the frequency inverter is required to act against the applied brake. • During comparison of data between the two controllers, desired values and intermediate results are exchanged, with inclusion of the cyclical self-tests. • Owing to the use of a frequency inverter with STO, a contactor is no longer required for disconnection of the supply voltage. The frequency inverter is suitable for driving and braking. 183 8 Circuit examples for SRP/CS • K3 possesses mechanically linked contact elements to IEC 60947-5-1, Annex L. The switching position of the break- contact element is monitored by the microcontroller K2 for the purpose of fault detection. • It is assumed in the example that closed-loop control provided by the frequency inverter T1 is sufficient for braking of the revolving door. Once a standstill has been reached, STO is activated in order to prevent unexpected start- up. The braking time and braking distance are monitored by the controller (ramp monitoring). The brake Q1 in the second channel is required so that, should T1 no longer be able to perform the fast stop T1s following the occur- rence of a fault, no danger can arise owing to an unexpected movement. Q1 operates on the closed-circuit current principle. • The software (SRESW) in K1 and K2 is programmed in accordance with the requirements for PL d as per subclause 6.3. • The standard components G1 and