SOS following a timeout (SS2-t); stop category 2 to EN 60204-1 SOS Safe operating stop Motor is stationary and resisting external forces SLA Safely-limited acceleration Violation of an acceleration and/or deceleration limit value is prevented. SLS Safely-limited speed Exceeding of the speed limit value is prevented. SLT Safely-limited torque Violation of a torque/force limit value is prevented. SLP Safely-limited position Exceeding of a position limit value is prevented. SLI Safely-limited increment The motor is moved a specified incremental distance, after which it stops. SDI Safe direction The motor is prevented from running in the undesired direction. SMT Safe motor temperature Exceeding of a motor temperature limit value is prevented. SBC Safe brake control Safe actuation of an external brake. SCA Safe cam A safe output signal is generated as long as the motor position remains within a specified range. SSM Safe speed monitor A safe output signal is generated as long as the motor speed remains below a specified value. SAR Safe acceleration range The accelerationevalua- and the average diagnostic coverage DC for the entire tion of their DC to EN ISO 13849-1. Different measures are avg subsystem under analysis of a safety-related control sys- usual for each function (I, L, O, i.e. input, logic, output), tem (SRP/CS). The formation of groups by means of the Category and technology. Their evaluation may vary as key values is applied here both for qualification of the a function of the design or external factors, such as the individual tests, and for definition of the DC . Since DC application in which the control system is operated. In avg avg is one of the input variables for the simplified bar-chart some applications, indirect monitoring by displacement method for quantification of the probability of failure, transducers or position switches on the actuators rather the calculated DC value is rounded down to the next than on the control system elements may for example not avg lowest of the four key values (0, 60, 90 and 99%) from provide any indication of whether the safety function can Table E.1, and thereby placed in one of the four DC classes still be executed independently by each of two redundant (None, Low, Medium and High). For example, a DC value control channels. In general, evaluation as a numerical DC avg of 80% is reduced in the simplified approach to a value value makes no distinction between automatic tests (e.g. of 60% (in contrast to the procedure in the IFA SISTEMA program routines that are performed regularly) or delibe- software utility, which employs intermediate DC values rate tests (e.g. tests initiated manually by the operator at avg in its default setting; see Annex H). The DC of individual regular intervals); refer here also to subclause 6.2.14. tests will first be discussed below, followed bycalculation of the DC . avg Table E.2: DC key values for typical test and monitoring measures at component and block level, to EN ISO 13849-1 Measure Primarily relevant for DC (%) Description of measure I L O Cyclic test stimulus by dynamic X 90 Periodic generation of a signal change with change monitoring of the results Plausibility check/readback/ (cross-)monitoring • Without dynamic test X X 0 to 99 The attained DC value depends on how often a signal change is done by the application • With dynamic test, X X 90 without high quality fault detection • With dynamic test, X X 99 with high quality fault detection Indirect monitoring X X X 90 to 99 The attained DC value depends on the application Direct monitoring X X X 99 Fault detection by the process X X X 0 to 991 The attained DC value depends on the application; this measure alone is not suf- ficient for the required Performance Level e2 Monitoring some characteristics X 60 286 Annex E Which unit performs a test is in principle also irrelevant, redundant functional channels executing the safety func- for example in the case of self-tests. Only where appro- tion. The appropriate DC level depends on the overlap priate independence is assured (single-fault tolerance, of the commonly used resources (logic, inputs/outputs resistance to common cause failures) between the testing etc.). E.g. when all faults of a rotary encoder on a printing and tested units, however, is a test actually effective. It machine lead to highly visible interruption of the printing is also important that the safe state is actually assumed process, the DC for this sensor used to monitor a safely following detection of a dangerous failure. If, for example, limited speed may be estimated as 90% up to 99%.” Forcontact welding on a main contactor is detected, but no PL = e, this measure is not sufficient on its own (see Table r means exist for timely stopping of a hazardous move- E.2), and produces a red warning message when SISTEMA ment, the detection is useless and must be rated with a is used. Where adequately justified however, for example DC of 0%. by means of further DC measures acting upon the same block, or when the complementary block of the redundant With regard to the DC measure of “fault detection by channel implements a different DC measure with a DC at the process”, the third edition of the standard provides least as great as the assumed DC provided by the process, information in the form of examples: “The DC measure this measure may still be included in the analysis. In ‘fault detection by the process’ may only be applied if the SISTEMA, this can be achieved by direct input of the DC safety-related component is involved in the production with manual selection of the percentage step, accompa- process, e.g. a standard PLC or standard sensors are nied by documentation of the justification. used for workpiece processing and as part of one or two Typical realisation in different technologies Mechanics Pneumatics Hydraulics Electrical systems (Programmable) electronics See description of measure Manual initiation of the test function Comparision of inputs or outputs without detection of short circuits