practice In the context of quantification in accordance with op method (see subclause D.2.5). EN ISO 13849, the selection criteria for the lifetime will be considered briefly here. A distinction is drawn between Even though the standard states MTTF values for hydrau- the mechanical and electrical durability. The mechanical D lic valves subject to these conditions, each valve manu- durability of a contactor is expressed by the number of facturer should, if at all possible, determine failure stati- operation cycles attained by the contactor without loading stics for his own components and state an MTTF value of of the conducting paths. It isdependent upon the wear of D his own. the mechanical moving parts. D.2.4 MTTF of pneumatic and electro- The electrical durability of switchgear is expressed by the D mechanical control components number of operation cycles at the attainment of which the electrical contact elements are worn out. The electrical In fluid power, mechanical and electromechanical tech- contact elements are stressed during operation under nology, the lifetime and reliability of the components are electrical load, during both the contact making and brea- generally determined by the wear characteristics of the king processes. This causes wear of the contact members moving elements. in the form of contact pitting. It varies as a function of the voltage, current, load type (e.g. inductive) and dura- In fluid power components such as valves, which gene- tion. Complete contact pitting generally leads to contact rally constitute complex units with a large number of welding. In applications relevant to safety, this must be moving elements (such as pistons, plungers, springs in detected, in order for hazardous states caused by failure the pilot and main stages), the operational environmental of the contacts to open to be detected. For detection to conditions may also strongly influence the lifetime. These be assured, mechanically linked contacts must be used include, in particular: on contactor relays, or mirror contacts on contactors. The manufacturer's information must be observed here. • The quality and condition of the pressure medium (compressed air) The mechanical durability and the electrical durability of • Compatibility of seals with the lubricants the contact elements are determined by the manufactu- • Temperature influences rers in test series. These values are however not indepen- • Environmental influences such as dusts, gases, fluids dent of each other. The actual durability of the contactor may depend upon the power and operating mode ofthe Observance of the requirements specified by the compo- electrical load, as well as upon the mechanical wear. The nent manufacturer is crucial, since the parameters for the durability of the device is influenced by these values. failure behaviour of the component from which the control system category is calculated are not otherwise valid. The B values stated in Table D.2 of this report (see 10D subclause D.2.4.1) for the durability of the device are for A distinction is drawn between contactors and contactor orientation only. Preference should be given to the values relays. Contactor relays are used to implement logic and stated by the manufacturer. Should the manufacturer to drive contactors. Where higher power ratings must be himself not state a B value, but state values (number 10D switched, for example motors > 3 kW, contactors are gene- of operation cycles) for the mechanical and electrical rally used. Contactor relays are governed by the provisions durability, the lower of these values (generally dependent of IEC 60947-5-1, contactors by those of IEC 60947-4-1. upon the load in the case of the electrical durability) can be used as an estimate of the B value. The B can 10 10D Comprehensive criteria must be observed for their selec- be obt ained by doubling of this value (see subclause tion and use. These particularly include: D.2.4.1). 269 Annex D Table D.2: Typical reliability values that may be assumed to be reached when good engineering practice is followed Basic and well-tried Other relevant standards Typical values: safety principles to EN ISO MTTF (years) D 13849-2:2012 B (cycles) 10D Mechanical components Tables A.1 and A.2 — MTTF = 150 years D Hydraulic components with Tables C.1 and C.2 EN ISO 4413 MTTF = 150 years n ≥ 1,000,000 cycles per year D op Hydraulic componentsExposure of a person/of persons to the hazard • Has sufficient consideration been given to the conse- – A hazardous event occurring quences that can arise from the use in a non-profes- – The technical and human possibilities for avoidance sional/non-industrial context of a machine designed for or limitation of the harm professional/industrial use? Electric shock Obstacles Counter-rotating rollers Automatic machinery: Crushing hazard may start without warning Figure 5.2: Examples of hazards (source: German Hand injuries Social Accident Insurance Institution for the food stuffs and catering industry) 27 5 Safety functions and their contribution to risk reduction Risk without Risk without Actual Acceptable/ safety-related protective residual risk tolerable risk control systems measures low high Overall risk presented by the machine Necessary minimum risk reduction Actual risk reduction Covered by measured Covered by Remaining not involving safety- safety-related parts residual risk related parts of control systems Figure 5.3: of control systems Risk estimation and risk reduction 5.3 Identification of the required safety tions are defined that are executed by the SRP/CS (safety- functions and their properties related parts of control systems) (see Figure 5.4). An iterative process for design of the safety-related parts Should the evaluation identify an (as-yet) unacceptable of control systems is set out in [5] (Figure 4.1). Figure 5.5 risk, appropriate safeguards must be provided. Priority shows the part relevant to this subclause of the report. is however to be given to efforts by which hazards are avoided (inherently safe design), or at least reduced to Figure 5.4: the greatest possible extent, by design modifications to Safety functions are executed by SRP/CS the machine. In principle, information for use (including organizational measures) is also a possible means of risk Sensor Logic Actuator reduction. Measures of this kind are acceptable however only in exceptional cases in which an economicallywith