given to the overlap of hazards. The paper [5] provides a basis for discussion of the consequences of a probabilistic approach to thepoint in time machine; when actuated, they bring all 50 drives to a halt under analysis? as rapidly as possible. What components must be con- sidered in this case during implementation of the safety • What movements present hazards at the location of the function? It cannot be predicted which of the emergency- person(s)? stop devices will be actuated in order to initiate the safety function. Since the user only ever actuates one emergency • What safeguards initiate the safety function at the point stop device at any one time, safety functions SF1 to SF20 in time under analysis? are defined. The location of a person exposed to a hazard at the time the emergency stop is initiated is not known. 5.4 Determining of the required Regardless of where this person is located however, not Performance Level PL r all 50 drives present a hazard. The worst case should therefore be considered representative for all conceivable A required Performance Level PL – in technical terms, the r situations. The worst case is determined by the worst desired value – must be specified for each implemented PFH , and is therefore partly dependent upon the num- safety function3. The requirements are derived from the D ber of drives in the safety chain that generate hazardous necessary risk reduction. During definition of the risk movements at the least favourable location, and upon the reduction, consideration must also be given to the likeli- respective individual PFH values. The associated block hood and severity of accident, which may not be known. D diagram is shown in Figure 5.8. ISO/TR 14121-2 [4] describes methods for determining the required scale of the risk reduction. EN ISO 13849-1 The PFH values of the following blocks must therefore be employs one of these methods, that of the riskanalysis of overlapping hazards. The present Source: WFL Millturn Technologies GmbH & Co. KG information sheet details and elaborates upon this paper. Figure 1: Owing to the wide range of hazardous situations Diagram showing the axes of a machine encountered at the human-­‐machine interfaces tool referred to above, this information sheet cannot be considered universally valid for their analysis. Overlapping hazards are characterized by the Standards developers are free to describe simultaneous action of multiple discrete hazards appropriate machine-­‐specific provisions in the upon one or more persons (or their limbs or parts of relevant product or Type C standards and have the the body) requiring protection and present at a remit to do so. hazardous location or able to reach hazardous areas (see Figure 1). Problematic in this context is that where a large number of overlapping hazards arise at a human-­‐ Discrete hazards include both the movement of an machine interface, a sufficiently low probability of individual axis, and hazards resulting for example failure of all safety-­‐related control components from the movement of an entire machine part. involved (sensors, logic, multiple actuators) can be Where the movement of a machine part is the result demonstrated only with very high analytical effort of kinematic interaction between one or more (e.g. Markov modelling), if at all. spindle and feed axis drives (such as a milling tool on the saddle of a machining centre), it may Furthermore, overlapping hazards of differing risk r therefore be regarded as a discrete hazard. (differing in their PL or SIL) make determining the probability of failure of safety functions more complex, which in turn drastically increases the required analytical effort. 313 Annex J Safety functions to EN ISO 13849-­‐1 where multiple overlapping hazards are present 2 Handling of overlapping hazards in practice risk and the properactions on the part of the machine operators must be considered, as must the possible movements of the machinery parts presenting a hazard (such as vectorial movements Precise examination of which hazards actually caused by the kinematics of multiple axes or overlap within a specific hazard zone is absolutely translational movements of single axes). essential. The dimensions of the parts of the body at E2 Prism magazine Q5 (behind end panel) E3 E1 E4 Source: WFL Millturn Technologies GmbH & Co. KG Fig 2: Different discrete hazards, with reference to the example of a machine tool 314 Annex J Depending upon the specific risk assessment, it is per- rotational movement need not therefore be considered missible in practice to model safety functions based upon here) an analysis of their discrete hazards, even though they are formed by overlapping hazards. These four discrete hazards thus yield the four safety func- tions SF1 to SF4. The safety function SF1 for E1 for example However, where several actuators (e.g. contactors, valves, comprises one feed axis and one spindle drive (C, S). The 1 1 closed-loop drive controls) contribute to reducing the risk safety function SF2 for E2 for example comprises the feed of the same discrete hazard, they must all be considered axis drives X, Y, Z, the swivel drive (B) and the spindle 1 1 1 1 together in a safety function. In other words, all actuators drive (S). 3 capable of causing hazardous movements on one and the same machine part must be considered together in a References safety function. [1] EN ISO 13849-1: Safety of machinery – Safety-related When the individual risk assessment on the machine parts of control systems – Part 1: General principles leads to a differentiated risk assessment with differing PL for design, 2015-12 r or SIL,it is permissible in practice to model safety func- tions based upon the analysis of discrete hazards. [2] IEC 62061: Safety of machinery – Functional safety of safety-related electrical, electronic and programma- Examples: ble electronic control systems, 2015-06 1. If the movement of a milling tool is derived from the [3] IEC 61508-1: Functional safety of electrical, elec- kinematic interaction between multiple movements of tronic, programmable electronic safety-related discrete axes, all actuators triggering this movement systems. Part 1: General requirements, 1998-12