a safety function, in which the following gency-stop device is actuated” (see subclause 5.5) are considered: Twenty emergency-stop devices are installed on a larger • At what location are persons present at theSISTEMA may be shared with third parties. Modification of SISTEMA is however not permitted. SISTEMA is supplied in the following language versions: English, German, French, Italian, Spanish, Japanese and Finnish. Instructions on the use of SISTEMA can be found in the Getting Started (Webcode m1221153), the SISTEMA cookbooks (Webcode e109249) and the help file installed with SISTEMA. Infor- mation and guidance on EN ISO 13849-1 can be found under Webcode e89507 and at www.dguv.de/ifa/13849e. 303 304 Annex I: Operating mode selection safety function I.1 Introduction Since an error in selection of the operating mode may lead to a direct increase in the risk, selection of the ope- Work on a machine generally entails manual intervention rating mode must be regarded as a safety-related func- in the danger zone, in addition to automatic operation. tion. It is also listed as such in Table 8 of the standard. Since such intervention, required for example for setup, This raises the question whether the control aspect of troubleshooting or cleaning, is generally associated with operating mode selection is part of each safety function an elevated risk, different operating modes are employed implemented on the machine, or whether operating mode depending upon the task to be performed. selection can be regarded as a safety function in its own right. As in the procedure described in subclause 5.3.2, Selection of an operating mode activates safety functions in which overlapping hazards within a given danger zone on the machine that reduce the respective prevailing risk can be divided into hazards presented by individual parts to an acceptable level. From a safety perspective, an ope- of the machine, it is expedient for operating mode selec- rating mode is thus defined in terms of the safety func- tion to be treated as a safety function in its own right.This tions that are activated and those that are deactivated also prevents the components used for operating mode when the operating mode is selected. Errors in selection selection from further increasing the average probability of the operating mode may lead to the required safety of a dangerous failure per hour (PFH ) in each individual D functions not being activated: if a different operating safety function. mode is activated to that selected, other safety functions are activated rather than those required for the planned As stated in the introduction, an operating mode is cha- task. In the worst-case scenario, an error in operating racterized in safety terms by the safety functions that are mode selection may even lead to no safety functions at all activated by its selection. Accordingly, the safety function being active. The increase in the risk associated with the of operating mode selection can be defined as follows: two cases necessitates a safety analysis of the operating activation of the safety functions required for the selected mode selection. operating mode. Operating mode selection is normally implemented by It must now be determined how the required Performance electromechanical selector switches. The Machinery Level PL of the operating mode selection function is to be r Directive [1] sets out a number of requirements for this set. In some cases, the PL of operating mode selection r purpose. For example: is already stated in the product standard used. Where this is not the case, it is logical for the highest PL of all r • A selector switch that can be locked in each position safety functions that can be activated on the machine to must be provided for operating mode selection be applied. This rule is based upon the fact that failure of the operating mode selection function canresult in • Activation of an operating mode must be unambiguous the required safety functions not being activated, or – in (i.e. each position of the selector switch must corres- a worst-case scenario, when operating mode selection pond to only one operating mode) fails altogether – the machine being operated unnoticed with no safety functions whatsoever. When a machine • The selected operating mode must be clearly identi- tool is changed from the “setup” to the “process monito- fiable by the operator (for example evident from the ring” operating mode, for example, this could lead to an position of the selector switch) un acceptable increase in the risk. The Machinery Directive permits substitution of the selec- When operating mode selection is treated as a safety tor switch in the application by a different item of equip- function in the sense of EN ISO 13849-1, the standard also ment for selection that is able to restrict the use of certain becomes relevant for evaluation of the control technology machine functions to selected groups of persons. The use employed. Depending upon the components used and of electronic equipment for this purpose is not excluded; the scenario, fault exclusions could be asserted. This pro- the circuits and components used that are relevant to cedure will be described below for common control ele- safety, and any software that may be used, must however ments used for operating mode selection. Further infor- attain a level of safety comparable to that of an electro- mation on operating mode selection as a safety function mechanical operating mode selector switch. can be found in subclause 4.1 of [2]. 305 Annex I I.2 Cam-operated selector switches Figure I.1: Structure of the operating mode selection function On switches with direct opening contact elements to IEC 60947-5-1 [3], Annex K, faultexclusion for failure of the contacts to open can be applied in accordance with Table D.8 of EN ISO 13849-2 [4]. These switches also have Access system Selection system Activation system the status of well-tried components; the safety function can therefore be classified as Category 1 in accordance with the standard when they are used. Access system If, on switches with direct opening contact elements, the fault exclusions are also possible