crossed. ≤ 3 a b ≥ 3 Values for the average probability of a dangerous failure ≤ 2 b per hour PFH are normally available for all subsystems D c ≥ 3 (values for SIL and PFH to IEC 61508 [10] or IEC 62061 D ≤ 2 c [11] are also suitable). The PFH relevant to the overall PL D value can then be formed by summation of these values: d ≥ 4 ≤ 3 d N PFH =∑PFH = PFH + PFH + ... + PFH (5) e ≥ 4 D Di D1 D2 N i=1 ≤ 3 e where 73 6 Design of safe control systems Since with both methods, all subsystem PLs are always either for the quantifiable aspects (e.g. Category 1 twice at least as great as the overall PL, it is also ensured that in parallel still does not equate to Category 3, since it all measures for non-quantifiable, qualitative aspects lacksfault detection) or with regard to the qualitative (e.g. systematic failures or software) are adequately aspects (e.g. systematic failures, software, common considered in the combination. Particular attention must cause failure). Usually, the only solution is therefore a re- however be paid here to the interfaces between the sub- evaluation of the entire system; in some cases it may be systems: possible to exploit the intermediate results (e.g. the MTTF D or DC of blocks). • All connections (e.g. conductors or data communication over bus systems) must already be considered in the PL Figure 6.14: of one of the subsystems involved, or faults in the con- Mixed subsystems can be re-sorted in the safety-related block nections must be excluded or be negligible. diagram, for example by priority being given to encapsulated subsystems (“L” in this case). • The subsystems arranged in series must be compatible at their interfaces. In other words, each output status of an actuating subsystem that signals the demand of the safety function must be a suitable initiating event for initiating the safe state of the downstream subsystem. I1 O1 In two-channel systems connected in series, addition of L the subsystem PFH values may lead to minor arithmetic D errors on the unsafe side. Strictly speaking, the two out- I2 O2 puts of the first subsystem should additionally be read crossed over into the inputs of the second subsystem, Hardware-related representation: and compared. Crossed-over doubling of the input infor- three SRP/CS as subsystems mation, however, is often already implemented internally at the input level of the second subsystem. In order to prevent an unnecessarily high wiring overhead, the minor underestimation of the PFH during addition is tolerable. D I1 O1 The rules described up to this point already enable sub- L systems to be combined much more flexiblyof control systems independently of the techno- annex contains dedicated subclauses governing controls logy em ployed, as has already been mentioned. The for machines and the requirements placed upon protec- Performance Level enables different control structures tive devices. The essential safety requirements applicable em ploying different technologies to be combined easily. to the design of machines and safety components oblige The standard offers everything needed from a single manufacturers to conduct a risk assessment in order to source comprising approximately 100 pages. The methods identify any hazards associated with the machine. Three are formulated neutrally with regard to the specific appli- principles are stated, in the following order, by which cation or the technology employed, and are therefore the accident risks associated with each hazard are to be referenced by virtually all product standards for machine red uced to an acceptable level: safety (generally Type C standards). • The elimination or reduction of risks by inherently safe With entry into force of the revised 2006/42/EC Machinery design Directive [2] in December 2009, the harmonized stan- dard acquired greater importance. This can be attributed • The taking of necessary measures for protection in rela- principally to the new provision that safety-related logic tion to risks that cannot be eliminated – also described as the safety-related parts of control systems – has been included in Annex IV of the directive. • The informing of users of the residual risks, particular Annex IV products of this kind are subject to special treat- training, instruction and personal protective equipment ment under the directive, unless they are manufactured in accordance with harmonized standards the reference of Under Article 7, the observance of harmonized Euro- which is listed in the Official Journal. pean standards the reference of which is listed in the Official Journal of thethan was possible by means of the categories as described in the I2 O2 first edition of the standard in the form of EN 954-1. These subsystems may differ widely in nature, for example with Simplified logic representation: regard to their technology or Category, and may also be developed against other standards for the safety-related two SRP/CS as subsystems parts of machine controls that are based upon an SIL rather than a PL (see Figure 3.2). A further special case is the integration of subsystems Two-channel and (tested) single-channel parts may alter- that already possess a PL (or SIL) or an average proba- nate in linked subsystems. As an example, Figure 6.14 bility of dangerous failure per hour PFH as blocks in an D shows an encapsulated logic subsystem (e.g. a safety SRP/CS. As an approximate rule without inspection of the PLC) to which two-channel input and output elements are internal structure of the subsystem, the reciprocal of the connected. Since the hardware level is already abstrac- average probability of a dangerous failure per hour PFH D ted in the safety-related block diagram, the order of the may be substituted as the MTTF for the block. Since any D subsystems is in principle interchangeable. It is therefore diagnostics measures of the subsystem that may have recommended that subsystems sharing the same struc- been implemented internally have already been consi- ture be grouped together, as shown in Figure 6.14. This dered in the probability of failure, only