recorded; that cification of all requirements (technical specification), the analysis/test conditions including their setup and specification of the safety functions, specification of the procedureare included; and that all verification/valida- design (with respect of course to safety) with its focus tion points/cases are recorded together with the results. upon software integrity, and specification of the intended Formal information such as document identifiers, persons operating, environmental and application conditions. performing the test/analysis, date, signature, etc. shall Chapter 6 of this report, specifically Box 6.1, contains of course be documented. Depending upon the level of comprehensive information on the required content of the automation and the tools and equipment used for the technical specification. The use of computer-aided spe- V&V measure, the documentation of the results will vary. cification tools and formal methods for the generation of The content referred to above should however be regar- the specification is possible, albeit unusual. ded as the minimum scope of documentation. Documen- tation management consistent with the need arising from Verification thus addresses the “specification” document the V&V process is therefore appropriate. Support and and takes the form of inspection and review. Division of resources of any kind used for this purpose, ranging from the procedure into two parts has proved effective. Verifi- record forms to document management systems, may be cation is first performed by experienced personnel in the considered valuable. manufacturer's operation. This is followed by verification by a competent external body, such as a test institute. 7.1.8 Completion or iteration Verification of the entire development and design docu- The combination of different SRP/CS involved in a safety mentation is covered by clause 12 of EN ISO 13849-2. This function attains a Performance Level PL. At the end of the clause is cross-referenced to the required content of the V&V process, this PL shall be compared to the required technical documentation (clause10 of the standard). Ana- Performance Level PL for the safety function in question. lysesof operation, the average report, alternative generic standards of relevance exist probability of a dangerous failure per hour PFH 4 is eva- D in the area of functional safety2. As shown in Figure 3.1, luated by IEC 62061 (for further information, refer also to these standards are those of the IEC 61508 series [10], [12]). With certain exceptions, only the second definition and their sector standard IEC 62061 [11] for the machinery is relevant in the machinery sector and thus in IEC 62061. industry. Both of these are limited in their scope to electri- The new edition of EN ISO 13849-1 has also adopted this cal, electronic and programmable electronic systems. definition of the operating mode, and limits the scope of the standard accordingly. SIL 4 systems with higher risks A classification system involving “Safety Integrity Levels” are unknown in the area of machinery, and are not there- (SILs) is set out in IEC 61508 and IEC 62061. The SILs serve fore considered in IEC 62061 (Figure 3.2, see Page 16). as indicators of the level of safety-related reliability. The associated values are target failure measures, each com- The essential approach of the standards governing func- prising a decade3. IEC 61508 distinguishes two different tional safety (IEC 61508 and IEC 62061) developed by the applications of safety functions: International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC), namely that of defining probabilities of failure as the characteris- • Safety functions in low demand mode (max. frequency tic parameter without the specific inclusion of architec- of demands once per year) tures, initially appears more universal. The approach of EN ISO 13849-1, however, offers users the facility for • Safety functions in high demand mode or continuous developing and evaluating safety functions, ranging from mode a sensor to an actuator (e.g. a valve), under the umbrella ofare suitable activities for verification of the deve- r An adequate safety quality has been attained when the lopment/design documents (technical documentation). evaluation of “PL ≥ PL?” as shown in Figure 7.2 yields a Inspection, review and walk-through constitute typical r positive result. methods for this purpose; refer necessary for example to IEC 61508-7 [10]. If the requirements set out in the specification of the SRP/ CS are not met in full, the design and implementation pro- 7.3 Validation of the safety function cess shall also be reverted to at this stage. If the V&V acti- vities for all safety functions have been completed with a Validation of the implemented safety function(s) encom- positive result, evaluation of the SRP/CS is deemed by the passes the activities that demonstrate full compliance standard to have been completed. If not, the V&V process with the functional characteristics and performance crite- ria set out in the specification. Review of implementation 90 7 Verification and validation of the points listed in subclause 5.3.1 regarding the speci- The following analyses shall be performed: fication of safety functions is also useful for determining whether the safety function(s) have been correctly defi- • Structure and signal path analysis of the technical cir- ned and implemented. cuit documentation To permit an evidence of whether the functional require- • Evaluation of implementation and effectiveness of the ments have been met, the following sub-tests shall be fault diagnostics measures performed: • Inspection of the observance of basic safety principles • functional test • Inspection of the implementation of well-tried safety • Extended functional test of the behaviour of the SRP/ principles (Category 1 and higher) CS in response to input signals, operator processes or inputs that are atypical, unexpected, procedurally • Inspection of the use of well-tried components (Cate- in correct,or lie outside the specification (are invalid) gory 1 only) • Simulation (where possible) • Evaluation of faults to be analysed and permissible fault exclusions including their reasoning where added to • Performance tests (functional parameters, response fault lists on a case-by-case basis time, etc.) The annexes in Part 2 of the standard, and also Annex C of However, final assessment of proper integration of all this report, provide detailed assistance in execution of the safety functions on the complete