appropriate 271 Annex D when data are incomplete, for example when intact parts five out of seven valves must fail for evaluation of the test are to be considered. Results in the form of data for the results. The “maximum likelihood” and “rank regression” parameters b and T can be read off from the diagrams. In methods are stated in ISO 19973-1 as example methods turn, the nominal life T , at which 10% of the components for determining the Weibull parameters. 10 studied have failed, can then be determined. The durabi- lities of pneumatic and electromechanical components As an approximation, where testing is performed on a are generally stated in the pseudo-unit of (operation) small number of test specimens, e.g. seven valves, the “cycles” rather than in the dimension of time. The mean first failure determines the B value, i.e. the number of 10 number of operations per year n (in cycles per year, see cycles attained by the time of the first failure corresponds op subclause D.2.4.2) is used for conversion. The B value approximately to the B value. Should the first failure be 10 10 in cycles corresponds here to the time-based Tvalue. dangerous, the number of operation cycles performed up 10 The MTTF value is determined as described below in sub- to this point approximates to the B value. D 10D clause D.2.4.2 by the nominal life B . A reliability analysis 10 employing Weibull statistics can be conducted by means Dangerous failures on pneumatic valves particularly of commercial software. The safety-related reliability include: values for fluid power and electromechanical components must be stated by the manufacturer of the components • Failure to switch (sticking at an end or zero position) concerned. The reliability of pneumatic components can or incomplete switching (sticking at a random inter - be determined with reference to ISO 19973, Pneumatic me diate position) fluid power – Assessment of component reliability by tes- ting. This standard currently comprises five parts: • Change in switching times • Part 1: General procedures • Spontaneous change in initial switching position (in the absence of an input signal) • Part 2: Directional control valves Analysis of the failures always refers to the entire modular • Part 3: Cylinders with piston rod unit, consisting for example of main valve and pilot valve. • Part 4: Pressure regulators D.2.4.2 Conversion of B to MTTF 10D D • Part 5: Non-return valves, shuttle valves, dual pressure For the simplified method for estimation of a PL, the stan- valves (AND function), one-way adjustable flow control dard expects statement of an MTTF value for considera- D valves, quick-exhaust valves tion of random component failures. For electromechanical and pneumatic components however, B are typically 10D Where the reliability of pneumatic valves is determined, available, which must first be converted to MTTF values. D the life (B value) is indicated in cycles before failure. The standard provides an approximation formula for this 10 The nominal life B (termedt in some references) is the purpose. This formula is subject to certain conditions: 10 10 average number of operation cycles by the attainment of which 10% of the units studied have failed. Since in T B 10D 10D the case of valves, the “availability” failure criterion also MTTF D = 0,1 = 0,1 · n (D.3) op encompasses failures that are not relevant to safety (e.g. leakage above the defined threshold), it has been set out This approximation is based upon reformulation in two in the standard that the value determined for the nominal steps. The B value, stated in the pseudo unit of “cyc- 10D life (B ) multiplied by two may be considered equal to the les”, is first converted to a T value. This value is the 10 10D B (dangerous) value (number of cycles until 10% of the elapsed time at which 10% of the components under ana- 10D components fail dangerously): lysis have failed dangerously: B = 2 ⋅ B (D.2) B 10D 10 T = 10D (D.4) 10D n op The B value is generally determined in the laboratory. For 10 this purpose, at least seven valves produced at different The average number of actuations per year n (stated in op times are subjected to endurance testing. The maximum cycles per year) serves as the conversion factor for this rate of operations for the endurance test is determined purpose. It is based upon the following parameters, which from the pressure build-up (attainment of 90% of the test must be estimated for the anticipated application (if pressure) and the pressure dissipation (attainment of appropriate, the worst-case scenario): 10% of the test pressure) in a connected volume that is defined according to the port cross-subclauses. At least 272 Annex D • h → Mean operationin hours per day however, the onset of the wear phase results in strong op variation. • d → Mean operation in days per year op Formula (D.3) is derived from the condition • t → Mean operation time between the beginning cycle of two successive cycles of the component F(T ) = 1 – exp(– λ · T ) = 10% 10D D 10D (e.g. switching of a valve) in seconds (s) per cycle. for the exponential distribution forming the approxi- mation, where λ represents the “substitute failure D The n (in cycles per year) can be determined from these rate” referred to above. Reformulation produces op parameters as follows: λ = –ln(0.9)/T . Since ln(0.9) approximates closely to D 10D 0.1 and MTTF = 1/λ , the result is finally MTTF ≈ T /0.1. D D D 10D d · h s op op n = (cid:31)· 3,600 (D.5) D.2.5 Good engineering practice methods op t h cycle The second step in the approximation hidden in the for- Should no component reliability data be available from mula (D.3) consists of the assumption of a “substitute the manufacturer, the standard proposes the use of failure rate” constant over time for the actual failure rate, values listed