M 1S1 1S2 1M 1P Tested hydraulic 3 valves for redundant control of hazardous movements Safety functions • Safety-related stop function: stopping of the hazardous movement and prevention of unexpected start-up from the rest position • Only the hydraulic part of the control system is shown here, in the form of a subsystem. Further SRP/CS (e.g. safe- guards and electrical logic elements) must be added in the form of subsystems for completion of the safety func- tion. Functional description •Hazardous movements are controlled by two directional control valves (1V3 and 1V4). • Failure of one of the two valves alone does not result in loss of the safety function. • The two directional control valves are actuated cyclically. • Each directional control valve is equipped with a direct position monitor (1S3 and 1S4). Failure of either of the two directional control valves is detected; following a fault, initiation of the next hazardous movement is prevented. 218 8 Circuit examples for SRP/CS 1V3 1V4 1S3 1S4 Design features • Basic and well-tried safety principles are observed and the requirements of Category B are met. • Directional control valves 1V3 and 1V4 possess a closed centre position with sufficient overlap, spring-centred central position/return, and electrical position monitoring. • The safety-oriented switching position is assumed from any position by cancellation of the control signal. • Signal processing by the electrical position monitoring function satisfies the relevant requirements for the control of failures. Calculation of the probability of failure • MTTF : an MTTF of 150 years is assumed for the directional control valves 1V3 and 1V4 [M]. D D • DC : the DC of 99% for the directional control valves 1V3 and 1V4 is based upon direct monitoring of the switching avg states. Averaging thus produces a DC also of 99% (“high”). avg • Adequate measures against common cause failure (65 points): separation (15), overvoltage protection etc. (15) and environmental conditions (25 + 10) • The combination of the hydraulic control elements satisfies Category 4 with a high MTTF and high DC (99%). D avg This results in an average probability of dangerous failure of 1.6 · 10-8 per hour. This satisfies PL e. Following the addition of further SRP/CS in the form of subsystems for completion of the safety function,Literaturhinweise dienen einem tieferen Ver- application and interpretation of the standard at national ständnis der jeweiligen Beispiele. Der Report zeigt, wie and international level. die Anforderungen der DIN EN ISO 13849-1 in die techni- sche Praxis umgesetzt werden können, und leistet damit einen Beitrag zur einheitlichen Anwendung und Interpre- tation der Norm auf nationaler und internationaler Ebene. Résumé Resumen La sécurité fonctionnelle des systèmes de Seguridad funcional de los sistemas de mando commande de machines de máquinas – Application de la norme DIN EN ISO 13849 – – Aplicación de la norma DIN EN ISO 13849 – La norme DIN EN ISO 13849-1 « Sécurité des machines – La norma DIN EN ISO 13849-1 «Seguridad de las máqui- Parties des systèmes de commande relatives à la sécurité nas: partes de los sistemas de mando relativas a la » définit comment doivent être conçues les parties des seguridad» establece reglas para el diseño de partes de systèmes de commande relatives à la sécurité. Le présent sistemas de mando relativas a la seguridad. El presente rapport est une version actualisée du rapport 2/2008 du informe es una actualización del informe del mismo nom- même nom du BGIA. Il présente les principaux contenus bre del BGIA 2/2008. En él se presentan los contenidos de la norme dans sa troisième édition de 2015, et en esenciales de la norma en su tercera edición de 2015 y explique l’application à partir de nombreux exemples pris se explica su aplicación con numerosos ejemplos de los dans les domaines de l’électromécanique, de la tech- ámbitos de la electromecánica, la tecnología de fluidos, nique des fluides, de l’électronique et de l’électronique la electrónica y la electrónica programable, incluidos los programmable, et notamment aussi des systèmes de sistemas de mando de tecnologías mixtas. Se muestra commande de technologie mixte.attained (see Block of SISTEMA in parallel”), but also the entire process of 7, Figure 4.1). Further details can be found in Chapter 7. design against the standard (“Definition of safety func- tions”, “From the schematic circuit diagram to the Perfor- 4.4 Changes arising from the third edition of mance Level”, “When the designated architectures don‘t the standard published in 2015 match”). Finally, the resources include the “Performance Level Calculator”[16] developed by the IFA. This presents With Amendment 1, the third edition of the standard the bar chart in the form of a rotating disc by means of was produced from the second. The amended passages which the PFH and PL can be determined easily and D primarily serve to improve comprehension and applica- precisely at any time. All further resources and reference – tion. A detailed overview focusing upon the changes was such as information on the test standards and principles pub lished by the IFA in 2015 [15]. The essential changes [17] of DGUV Test, the test and certification system of the include consideration, during specification of the required German Social Accident Insurance – can be found on the Performance Level (PL), of the probability of occurrence of IFA‘s website at: www.dguv.de/ifa/13849. r a hazardous event; a new, simplified method for determi- ning the PL for the output part of the safety-related part of During work on the third edition of EN ISO 13849-1, seve- the control system (SRP/CS); and a proposal for the hand- ral major work packages were identified that lay outside ling of requirements for SRESW (safety-related embedded the scope of an amendment. These included, for example, software) when standard components are used. Table 4.2 thorough revision of the software requirements, in order shows which main changes have been made in which to improve itsthe PL may under certain circumstances be lower. 219 8 Circuit examples for SRP/CS Figure 8.63: Determining of the PL by means of SISTEMA