in the hazard zone when the machine restarts unexpectedly, the movement Figure A.2: is so fast as to make evasion virtually impossible (P2). Risk assessment for collision protection on an autonomous This therefore results in a required Performance Level PL r guided vehicle of d for SF1 (see Figure A.3).This result is confirmed by the EN ISO 11111-6 product standard. The standards commit- tee evidently saw no reason to deviate from this owing to the incidence and severity of accidents. Figure A.3: Risk assessment for a weaving machine Temple Required performance Low risk level PLr P1 a F1 S1 P2 b Light beam Starting- P1 point for F2 Reed P2 c P1 estimation F1 of the risk S2 P2 P1 d reduction F2 P2 e Required performance High risk Low risk leveL PL r P1 a S2 – Serious, generally irreversible injury F2 – Frequent or long exposure F1 P1 – Evasion of the hazardous situation possible S1 P2 b Starting- P1 point for F2 P2 c P1 Example 3: Weaving machine estimation F1 of the risk S2 P2 P1 d reduction Weaving machines are employed for the fully automatic F2 weaving of textiles. The essential hazard is that of cru- P2 e shing between the reed and the temple. In order to recon- High risk nect the ends of broken warp threads, the operator must intervene in the hazard zone with the machine stationary. S2 – Serious generally irreversible injury Unexpected restarting is prevented by the safety function F1 – Infrequent or short exposure P2 – Evastion of the hazardous situation virtually impossible 248 Annex A Example 4: Rotary printing press Figure A.4: Risk assessment on a rotary printing press In a web-fed rotary printing press, a paper web is fed through a number of cylinders. High operating speeds and rotational speeds of the cylinders are reached, parti- cularly in newspaper printing. Essential hazards exist at the entrapment points of the counter-rotating cylinders. This example considers the hazard zone on a printing press on which maintenance work requires manual inter- vention at reduced machine speeds. The access tothe entrapment point is protected by a guard door (safeguar- ding). The following safety functions are implemented: • SF1 – Opening of the guard door during operation causes the cylinders to be braked to a halt. • SF2 – When the guard door is open, any machine move- ments must be performed at limited speed. • SF3 – When the guard door is open, movements are possible only whilst an inching button is pressed. Entrapment between the cylinders causes severe injuries Required (S2). Since tasks are performed in the hazard zone only performance during maintenance work, the frequency of exposure to Low risk level PLr the hazard can be described as low (less frequently than P1 a F1 once every 15 minutes); the entire exposure duration is lower than 1/20 of the entire operation time (F1). At Starting- S1 P2 P1 b point for F2 production speeds, no possibility exists of avoiding the P1 P2 c SF3 hazard (P2). This therefore results in a required Perfor- estimation F1 mance Level PL r of d for the safety functions SF1 and SF2 of the risk S2 P2 P1 d SF1, SF2 (see Figure A.4). The safety function SF3 can however be reduction F2 used only if the printing press has first been halted (SF1) P2 e and the permissible rotational speed of the cylinders High risk limited (SF2). This results in the possible machine move- ments being predictable for the operator, who is thus able S2 − Serious, generally irreversible injury F1 − Infrequent or short exposure to evade hazardous movements (P1). A required Perfor- P1 − Evasion of the hazardous situation possible P2 − Evasion of the hazardous situation virtually impossible mance Level PL of c is therefore adequate for SF3 (see r Figure A.4). In deviation from application ofthe risk graph, Reference the EN 1010-1:2010 product standard applicable for this machine specifies a PL of d for the SF3 safety function. r The risk reduction by SF1 and SF2 was unfortunately not [1] Werner, C.; Zilligen H.; Köhler B.; Apfeld R.: Safe considered by this standard. drive controls with frequency converters. IFA Report 4/2018e. 3rd ed. Published by: Deutsche Gesetzliche Chapter 8, Example 24 describes how the safety functions Unfallver sicherung e. V. (DGUV). Berlin, Germany 2019 described here can be implemented. (will be published in Summer 2019). www.dguv.de/ifa, Webcode: e635980 224499 250 Annex B: Safety-related block diagram and FMEA should initiate a safe state, such as operating inhibi- Changes with respect to the second edition tion with de-energized outputs (shut-down system). In (BGIA Report 2/2008e): accordance with EN ISO 13849-1, the Category and PL are intended to indicate only the safety quality, and not the • Convention for the expression of PFH (formerly: PFH), probability of fault-free operation, i.e. the “availability”. D MTTF , λ , λ , λ , λ , B , T adapted to the new ver- For this reason, signal paths that initiate a safe state in D S D DD DU 10D 10D sion of the standard (with the index in capitals) the event of a fault are regarded as being fully equiva- lent to functional units that may perform complex safety • Explanations of the use of failure type distributions functions. A “single safety signal path” in this context is added however a “channel” in its own right only when it is con- tinually engaged. If the safety path cannot become active • Explanations added concerning the issue of obtaining until a failure in the main function path proper has been B from B detected, its safety benefit is dependent uponthe quality 10D 10 of the failure detection mechanism. This quality is descri- • “Reference” subclause updated bed by the diagnostic coverage of the failure detection mechanism. In such cases, the safety path generally pro- For demonstration of the Category and Performance Level vides only test equipment with shut-off path. Architectural (PL) to EN