safety func- tion, testing should be performed so quickly that the [2] EN ISO 13849-2: Safety of machinery – Safety-related safe state is reached before a hazard arises. This is to parts of control systems – Part 2: Validation (2012) ensure that a failure can be detected by a test before a demand of the safety function cannot be met (see also [3] ISO/TR 24119: Safety of machinery – Evaluation Annex G). of fault masking serial connection of interlocking devices associated with guards with potential free • The MTTF of the test channel (TE and OTE) must be contacts (11/15) D at least half as high as the MTTF of the functional D channel (I, L and O). This assumption ensures that the probability of failure of the test channel is not unac- ceptably high. Should this condition be violated (even after capping of the MTTF of the functional channel to D 100 years), it isof the motor is kept within specified limit values. SSR Safe speed range The speed of the motor is kept within specified limit values. STR Safe torque range The torque of the motor (the force in the case of linear motors) is kept within specified limit values. The manner in which a safety function is executed may • Specification of safety-related parameters, such as the take very different forms. For this reason, certain characte- maximum permissible speed ristics must be observed at selection, and specified on a case-by-case basis. These include: • Required Performance Level PL r • Use in different operating modes (e.g. automatic mode, Detailed information on the definition of safety functions setup mode, troubleshooting) can be found in SISTEMA Cookbook 6, “Definition of safety functions: what is important?” [23]. • Use of different safety functions according to whether the power supply is available or has failed (see also 5.3.2 Examples in which the definition of the subclause 4.3 of [22]) safety function has an influence upon subsequent calculation of the PFH D • Response(s) to tripping of the safety function • Response(s) to detection of a fault in the safety function Later chapters will show how the average probability of a dangerous failure per hour (PFH ) can be calculated for D • Response time a safety function. The foundation for this is however laid at this stage, with definition of the safety function. By its • Frequency of actuation nature, the technical implementation of a safety func- tion determines the type and scale of the components • Priority, in cases where several safety functions may be re quired for it. The definition of the safety function thus active simultaneously has a considerable influence upon determination of the 30 5 Safety functions and their contribution to riskof course permissible to calculate the probability of failure using an MTTF of the functional D channel that is reduced mathematically to double the MTTF of the implemented test channel. D 292 Annex F: Common cause failure (CCF) Changes with respect to the second edition purpose by which β values of between 0.5 and 10% can (BGIA Report 2/2008e): be determined. Points are assigned in a long list of meas- ures sorted according to different causes; when certain Text of the descriptions of the measures brought into rules are applied, the sum of these points results in an line with the third edition of the standard estimated β value. EN ISO 13849-1 takes up this method, both in simplified form and with adaptation to machine safety. Simplification is based upon technical measures The term common cause failure (CCF) describes the fact that experts have considered particularly useful for the that in a redundant system or a single-channel system avoidance of CCF. This is, however, a compromise that can with separate test channel, several channels may be dis- be justified empirically, but not scientifically: abled by one and the same cause. The desired single-fault tolerance of a redundant structure is thus negated. It is • The list of measures against CCF was focused upon therefore important that this source of faults be elimina- the relevant solutions, primarily technical in nature, in ted as far as possible. The triggers of CCFs may be physical machine safety. in nature, such as overtemperature or strong electromag- netic interference, or systematic, such as defective circuit • A single target value with a maximum of 2% was selec- design or programming errors where identical software is ted instead of several possible β values. The target employed for both channels. value can only be either attained ornot attained. The simplified method to EN ISO 13849-1 for determining A common strategy for quantification of a control system's the Performance Level is based upon an assumed beta susceptibility to CCF is the beta-factor model. This stra- factor of 2%. tegy assumes that a certain proportion of the dangerous failures in one channel share the same cause as dange- • The mathematical rules for the points system were rous failures in the second channel. This concept is illus- summarized in two steps: each measure can only be trated in Figure F.1: the dangerous failure rates for the two either satisfied completely (full number of points) or not channels (shown symbolically as elliptical areas) have a satisfied (zero points); no provision is made for propor- CCF overlap, which is shown by the hatching. The propor- tional numbers of points for measures that are not com- tionality factor between the CCF rate and the dangerous pletely satisfied. If measures (such as diversity, use of failure rate of the single channel λ is normally termed β well-tried components) are satisfied completely only in D (common cause factor or beta factor). individual SRP/CS in the form of subsystems, different packages of measures may act against CCF at subsys- Figure F.1: tem level. The minimum number of 65 points must be Illustration of common cause failure (CCF) by means of the beta- reached for the Categories 2, 3 and 4 in order for use of factor model the simplified method for