Position monitoring of the valving Cross monitoring of Cross monitoring of signals and inter- element, value of DC depends inputs or outputs with mediate results with detection of short on concrete realisation detection of short circuits circuits and static faults and temporal and and static faults, e.g. logical program sequence monitoring; using safety modules dynamic cross monitoring of indepen- dently attained position ofvelocity information Position measuring Position measuring systems or Position measuring systems or limit switches at the actuators instead systems or limit limit switches at the actuators of the control elements switches at the actu- instead of the control elements; ators instead of the monitoring of valves by pressure control elements switches Position monitoring Position monitoring directly at the Position monitoring by Signal monitoring by readback e.g. using directly at the valving element over the whole mechanically linked read- optocouplers control element stroke back contacts (non-equi- valent break contacts) Failure of the process control, becoming obvious through malfunction, damage of workpiece or parts of the machine, interrupts or delay of the functional process, without producing a hazard immediately Monitoring of response time, range of analogue signals Monitoring of response time, range of analogue systems (e.g. electrical resistance, capacitance) 287 Annex E Measure Primarily relevant for DC (%) Description of measure I L O Program sequence monitoring • Simple temporal X 60 Time monitoring • Temporal and logical X 90 Start-up self-tests X (X) 90 To detect latent faults, DC depends on the testing technique Checking the monitoring device X 90 Checking the monitoring device reaction capability by the main channel at start-up or whenever the safety function is demanded or whenever an external signal demands it, through an input facility Dynamic principle X 99 All components of the logic are required to change the state ON-OFF-ON when the safety function is demanded Test of memory and CPU • Invariable memory: X 90 signature of one word (8 bit) • Invariable memory: X 99 signature of double word (16 bit) • Variable memory: X 60 RAM-test by use of redundant date e.g. flags, markers, constants, timers and cross comparison of these data • Variable memory: X 60 check for readability and writeability of used data memory cells • Variable memory: X 99 RAM monitoring with modified Hamming code or RAM self-test (e.g. “galpat” or “Abraham”) • Processing unit: X 60 to 90 self-test by software • Processing unit: X 90 to 99 coded processing Redundant shut-off path • With monitoring of the actuators X 99 by logic or test equipment 1 For example to be determined by FMEA calculating the ratio of detected dangerous failures to all dangerous failures 2 PL e normally requires two channels. Therefore as a minimum the complementary block of the redundant channel should implement a different DC measure, with a DC value at least as high as the assumed DC by the process 288 Annex E Typical realisation in different technologies Mechanics Pneumatics Hydraulics Electrical systems (Programmable) electronics not relevant Timer as watchdog, where trigger points are within the program of the logic not relevant By the watchdog, where the test equipment does plausability checks of the behaviour of the logic Detection of e.g. welded Detection of latent faults in program- and contacts by triggering data memories, input/output ports, and readback interfaces Checking the watchdog reaction capa bility Interlocking Interlocking circuits circuits implemented by relays implemented by pneumatics not relevant see description of measure not relevant see description of measure not relevant see description of measure not relevant see description of measure not relevant see description of measure not relevant see description of measure not relevant see description of measure 289 Annex E The following requirement applies, in addition to the test electronics with separate tests for the memory and the and monitoring measures stated in Table E.2: should a DC processing unit (see Figure E.3). The block DC is then at of “medium” or “high” be required for the logic, at least least as goodas the poorest individual DC. (Whether the one measure with at least 60% must be selected in each occurrence of units without testing is permissible must case for variant memory, invariant memory and proces- be determined with reference to the relevant Category sing unit. Measures other than those stated in Table E.2 definition, see subclauses 6.2.5 to 6.2.7; the DC for the may also be employed. logic is subject to further requirements, see above.) A better and more precise value for the block DC can be Further information on determining the DC for typical test attained by weighting the individual DC value with the measures can be found for example in Tables A.2 to A.14 associated failure rate λ (= 1/MTTF ). Formula (E.1) can D D of IEC 61508-2 [1]. These tables contain the key values of also be used for this purpose as an averaging formula at 60, 90 and 99% as the maximum DC to be attained by the block level. Depending upon the accuracy, such an ana- relevant measure. With suitable unrestricted implemen- lysis also ultimately leads to an FMEA, however. tation of the measures stated, this maximum value can however generally be employed for estimation. Annex E of • Where components are cascaded, such as electro- EN ISO 13849-2 [2] describes a comprehensive example mechanical position switches connected to a safety of validation of the failure behaviour and the diagnostic module by a common conductor, it may lead to a reduc- measures on an automatic assembly machine. tion in the DC. An electrically two-channel arrangement enables certain faults of a position switch to be detec- Following determining of the DC for individual test meas- ted by the safety module from logically implausible ures and prior to calculation of the DC , the DC value persignals from the two electrical contacts. Starting of the avg block must be determined. An individual test measure machine for example is prevented following closing of generally acts upon an entire block (e.g. cross monito- the door on which the switch