individual according to the following simple principle: the test meas- aspects of them have however long been familiar from ures that monitor the block are compiled for each block. relevant standards. The actual measures are graded For each of these test measures, one of four typical DC according to the required PL. Further information can be values is determined from a table in the standard. An ave- found in subclause 6.1.2 for systematic failures and in raging formula, which appears complex but is essentially subclause 6.3 for software. simple, can be used to calculate the DC parameter from avg it.and fitting of interlocking devices. Measures are implemented to prevent displacement and reasona- bly foreseeable misuse (see EN ISO 14119). A stable arrangement of the safeguard is assured for actuation of the position switch. 187 8 Circuit examples for SRP/CS • S1 satisfies IEC 60947-5-1; short-circuiting between adjacent contacts that are isolated from each other can there- fore be excluded. Despite the warning at start-up and forced dynamics, S1 may stick during inching mode. An addi- tional requirement is therefore that an emergency stop device be installed within the operator‘s reach. • The conditions for fault exclusion for conductor short circuits in accordance with EN ISO 13849-2, Table D.4 must be observed for the connecting lines to S1. Faults in the connecting lines to B1 are detected by monitoring in K4. • The programmable components K1 to K4 satisfy the normative requirements in accordance with subclause 6.3. • G1 is integrated into the closed-loop control circuit (acquisition of the commutation). The encoder G2, which is engineered with diversity, has the purpose of fault detection. • The standard components G1 and G2 are employed in accordance with the information in subclause 6.3.10. • T1 possesses an integrated STO safety function, which satisfies all requirements for Category 3 and PL d. The required fault detection is attained by provision and external monitoring of a feedback signal for STO1 and by inter- nal monitoring measures for STO2. • The bus systems (functional bus, monitoring bus) are employed in accordance with the information in sub- clause 6.2.18. Remarks • This example describes the safeguarding of entrapment points on rotary printing press. For non-cyclical operator intervention in the hazard zone, i.e. less frequently than one intervention per hour, EN 1010-1 requires only one position switch for monitoring of the guard position. The fault-tolerance criterion forCategory 3 generally requires the use of two position switches for similar machine control systems. • For inching mode subject to the condition that safely limited speed is already guaranteed, the possibility of avoi- ding the hazard can be assumed under certain conditions. For risk assessment, refer also to Example 4 in Annex A. Calculation of the probability of failure • The three safety functions differ only on the sensor level. B1, G1 and S1 are therefore described separately. • The two contacts with direct opening action of B1 are integrated into the downstream Category 3 structure. A B 10D value of 20,000,000 cycles [S] is assumed per contact. At 10 actuations per week, n is 520 cycles per year and the op MTTF is 384,615 years. Under the particular requirements of EN 1010-1 for B1 (refer to the design features), a DC of D 60% (cross monitoring of input signals without dynamic test, infrequent signal change caused by the application) is assumed. • G1 and G2 are also each integrated into a channel of the downstream Category 3 structure. Their contribution to determining of the PFH is an MTTF of 30 years per channel [M], 90% DC for G2 by plausibility check and 99% DC D D for G1 by monitoring for sin2 + cos2 = 1, plausibility checking and fault detection in the process. • S1 possesses a B value of 100,000 cycles [M]. At 10 actuations per week, n is 520 cycles per year and the MTTF 10D op D is 1,923 years. Owing to the forced signal change and start-up warning, S1 is modelled as a Category 2 subsystem, and a DC of at least 60% is assumed (sticking following repeated inching is not detected, however). Testing is performed in K1 and K3, the probability offailure of which is already considered in the downstream Category 3 subsystem and need not therefore also be considered in addition in the test channel. So as not to provoke an error message in SISTEMA, an MTTF value of 100 years is substituted in the test channel. Since testing is performed D immediately upon demand of the safety function, an adequate test rate is assured. The separate subsystem of S1 thus attains an average probability of dangerous failure of 5.3 · 10-7 per hour. Since it is not practicable for the con- trol system to bring about the safe state automatically in the event of the inching button sticking, and the PL is not r greater than c, involvement of the operator is also permissible (see subclause 6.2.5). • K1 + K3 and K2 + K4 are considered in two channels of a Category 3 subsystem in all three safety functions under analysis. 100 years [M] for K1 and K2, 50 years [M] for K4 and 30 years [M] for K3 are substituted for the MTTF . The D DC of 99% for K1 and K2 is produced by direct comparison of the supplied status information in K4. The DC of 99% 188 8 Circuit examples for SRP/CS for K3 is based upon parallel processing of all safety-related information in K4 and upon the direct comparison in K4 with the intermediate results and output signals formed by K3. The self-tests implemented in K4 together with partial monitoring by the selection of STO1 read back by K3 result in a DC of 60% for K4. • Adequate measures against common cause failure (70 points): separation (15), FMEA (5), overvoltage protection etc. (15) and environmental conditions (25 + 10) • T1, including its integrated safety function STO, is considered in the analysisas an encapsulated subsystem