for short circuit between The access system is the part of the operating mode adjacent isolated contacts and for simultaneous short cir- selection function that restricts the facility to select the cuit between the three terminals of changeover contacts operating mode to certain groups of persons and prevents in accordance with Table D.8 of EN ISO 13849-2, these actuation of the selection system inadvertently or impro- component faults need not be assumed. For example, on perly. Since selection of each operating mode is associ- a two-channel electrical circuit, fault exclusion permits ated with the activation of different safety functions, the modelling as a Category 3 subsystem and implementation access system is considered relevant to safety. up to Performance Level PL d in the single-channel mecha- nical components (refer in this context also in IFA Report On electromechanical selection equipment, access is 4/2018e, Annex A, Example 8 [2]). implemented by means of a key. Mechanical coding of the key can be used to limit the selection to specific operating Fault exclusions cannot be asserted for PL e; additional modes. This measure is accompanied by organizational measures are required in this case. It is possible for measures that have the purpose of limiting access to the example for the operator of the machine to be required to key(s) to certain groups of persons. confirm the selected operating mode following display ona user interface. At the same time, an activation system On electronic selection equipment, access can be imple- (see subclause I.3) in the safety-related control in PL e is mented for example by means of an RFID (radio-frequency to ensure that at any given time, no more and no less than identification) key or by passwords and corresponding one operating mode is selected on the machine. organizational measures. For analysis of the safety, assessment is necessary of whether the access restric- I.3 Electronic equipment tions exhibit safety comparable to that provided by a key on electromechanical selection equipment (integrity of Fault exclusion is not possible on electronic equipment. A the access data, coding, copy protection, organizational further analysis is therefore required for fault analysis of measures, etc.). The access system does not therefore operating mode selection by means of electronic equip- need to be considered during determining of the probabi- ment. lity of failure of the safety function. For this purpose, it must first be established which ope- Selection system rating mode selection functions must be modelled by the selection equipment. Analysis reveals the following sub- The selection system determines the operating mode that functions: is to be activated by the activation system in the control system (see below). 1) Access to the operating mode selection function On electromechanical selection equipment, the selection 2) Selection of the operating mode system corresponds to the manually actuated switch knob, the position of which is transmitted mechanically, 3) Activation of the operating mode for example via a shaft and cams, to the electrical contact elements. As described above, fault exclusion permits On an operating mode selection arrangement engineered safety implementation up to PL d and with the application by means of electronic equipment, the sub-functions sta- of additional measures up to PL eon such equipment. ted can be implemented in three subsystems (Figure I.1) [5]: On electronic selection equipment, the selection system is generally implemented by means of a user interface (human-machine interface, HMI), for example employing a touchpad or membrane keyboard. The operator specifies the operating mode to be activated in the machine control 306 Annex I through the user interface and where applicable further For the activation system, a PFH is determined according D electronic components. Since standard components are to the control components used for this purpose that must generally employed for this purpose, classification of a yield at least the Performance Level PL required for the r selection system engineered in this way as PL c or higher operating mode selection function. is not generally possible in the first instance. One means by which the required safety can nevertheless be attained Operating mode selection by means of electronic selec- is described in subclause 4.6.4 of the standard, which tion equipment is described below in further detail with states provisions concerning software-based parameteri- reference to an example (Figure I.2). zation. Since selection of the operating mode by an elec- tronic selection system is equivalent to software-based I.4 Operating mode selection with use of parameterization, the safety of this selection system an electronic key system as the access can be assessed against this subclause of the standard. system – PL e The method described in subclause 4.6.4 encompasses selection of the operating mode by the operator, checking I.4.1 Safety function of the selected operating mode in the safe control sys- tem, and confirmation of the selected operating mode by Activation of the safety functions required for the selected the operator. This ensures that the integrity of the data operating mode. used for parameterization is maintained along the entire communication chainand that corruption is detected. In I.4.2 Structure particular, should a fault occur in one of the components of the selection equipment, it is prevented from selecting The access system in the example takes the form of an or confirming an incorrect operating mode. electronic key system. The personal authorization level for access is stored on the electronic key. Activation system The selection system comprises three components: an The actual safety function of operating mode selection, HMI with touchscreen for displaying and selecting the i.e. activation of the safety functions required for the operating modes available in the applicable authorization selected operating mode, is performed on the activation level, a safety PLC for checking the authorization level and system. Where electronic selection equipment is used, the selected operating mode, and a standard PLC for com- only the activation system is considered in quantifica- munication between the components. tion of the operating mode selection when the selection system – as described above – is evaluated against the requirements of software-based parameterization. Access system Selection system