can be considered as one channel with a res- the electromechanical components referred to above. The pective B value.” following conditions are stated for exclusion of the fault 10D “failure of contacts to open”: Although this statement refers directly only to emergency stop devices and enabling switches, the principle can • The switch must satisfy IEC 60947-5-1:2003, Annex K, also be applied to other electromechanical components. i.e. it must possess contact elements with direct ope- ning action. It appears at first glance inconsistent for single-channel or two-channel modelling to be determined by the num- • Fault exclusion applies only up to a maximum of PL d. ber of electrical output contacts, despite the fact that PL e requires redundant components, i.e. a second fault exclusion for direct opening action can be assumed (position) switch (exception: emergency-stop devices). for mechanically linked contact elements. However, the statement that the B value of each channel is to apply This yields, irrespective of the number of electrical contact 10D to the contact element including its mechanical actuation elements, the following result for position switches (with shows this to be astrategy intended to present, in the and without separate actuator), guard-locking devices, simplest way possible, the complex interrelationship of enabling switches and pushbuttons: mechanical and electrical elements in the electromecha- nical components referred to. The focus lay here not upon • Up to PL d: fault exclusion is permissible and may also the details of the electromechanical design, but upon a apply to the mechanical aspects, subject also to con- recipe that is as simple as possible: firmation by the manufacturer. Modelling as a Category 3 encapsulated subsystem (with single-fault tolerance) • An electromechanical component employing one con- and direct statement of PL d and PFH of zero. The D tact element with direct opening action that satisfies coupling between PL and PFH must be cancelled for D the above conditions can be modelled as part of a Cate- this purpose in SISTEMA (under Subsystem, “PL” tab). gory 1 subsystem. In the functional channel, the subsys- tem contains a block with the corresponding B value. • PL e: no fault exclusion (for mechanical and electrical 10D aspects) is permissible • An electromechanical component employing (at least) two contact elements with direct opening action that For emergency stop devices in accordance with IEC 60947- satisfies the above conditions can be modelled as part 5-5, fault exclusion with respect to the “failure of contacts of a Category 3 or 4 subsystem, depending upon fault to open” is permissible for mechanical aspects up to detection in the downstream SRP/CS. In each of the two PL e, provided a maximum number of actuations is con- functional channels, the subsystem contains one block sidered. In the past, 6,050 actuations to IEC 60947-5-5 with the corresponding B value. was em ployed in this context as the number of operation 10D cycles over the lifetime. Beyond thegeneral case, EN ISO 13849-1 adds that “in some cases it may be possible, that the machine builder As mentioned in the preceding subclause, the permissi- can apply a fault exclusion according to EN ISO 13849-2, bility of fault exclusions in principle is of only limited rele- Table D.8 considering the specific application and envi- vance in practice. ronmental conditions of the device.”. The formulation of fault exclusion for an electromechanical component is The requirements stated in the standard are applied therefore on the one hand an issue for the component below to frequently used electromechanical components. manufacturer, who alone is familiar with the detail of its mechanical design. At the same time, it must be consi- dered with respect to the application whether fault exclu- sion is permissible in consideration of ambient, operating 275 Annex D D.2.5.2 Position switches as well as the switch itself. The relevant requirements of EN ISO 13849-2, Annex A must also be satisfied for Electromechanical position switches manufactured in the requisite fault analysis, including of possible fault accordance with IEC 60947-5-1 employing one or two exclusions. In accordance with EN ISO 13849-2, Table D.8, electrical contact elements with direct opening action a maximum of PL d is attainable with a single position in accordance with IEC 60947-5-1, Annex K can be consi- switch (even with two contact elements). The relevant dered as described in Table D.3. The B value that can be Type C standards for machines may contain provisions 10D applied (to one or two channels) in accordance with the deviating from this, such as the use of two position good engineering practice method is 2,000,000 cycles for switches for Category 3. position switches with separate actuator and 20,000,000 cycles for all other position switches. Information on the selection and fitting of positionswitches can be found in DGUV Informative publication Positive actuation of the switch (e.g. the actuating 203-079 [6] (in German). mechanism, attachment of the actuator) is important, Conceptual schematic circuit B1 B1 diagram B1.1 B1.2 Safety- related block B1.1 diagram B1 B1.2 Modelling Block B1 Blocks B1.1 and B1.2 per block: B = 2,000,000 or B = 2,000,000/ 10D 10D Table D.3: 20,000,000 cycles [N] or 20,000,000 cycles [S] or Modelling of position switches in the manufacturer‘s data [M] manufacturer‘s data [M] conceptual schematic diagram and in Category Category 1 Category 3 the safety-related block diagram, with and PL max. PL c max. PL d Category and PL assignment D.2.5.3 Guard-locking devices locking also possesses a facility for blocking the moving guard in the closed position. As long as this facility is Guard-locking devices in this context are equipment for active, the guard cannot be opened. the mechanical blocking of closed guards, with integra- ted position switch(es), considered as a modular unit, A product standard for guard-locking devices does not by means of which the safety functions of guard locking exist; basic safety requirements are however listed in and interlocking (position monitoring of the safeguard) EN ISO 14119. The GS-ET-19E test principles [7] also govern can be implemented. Of the “guard locking” safety func- guard-locking devices as