the PL reasonably practicable also in Category 3, such faults are from a mathematical and safety technology perspective. detected automatically. In addition, the resistance to an accumulation of undetected faults is also assured in Cate- Where more complex safety functions are involved, it may gory 4. no longer be possible to map the entire safety chain to any single one of the five basic types. In this case, the Consideration of the faults must include an assessment of solution is generally for the safety chain to be broken what component faults may be assumed, and what faults down into several subclauses (“subsystems”), each ofmay (with reasoning) be excluded. Information on the which can be mapped to a particular designated architec- faults to be considered is provided in Annex C. ture. The method by which these subsystems are then recomposed and an overall value determined from the In Categories 3 and 4, common cause failures capable of individual Performance Levels is explained in greater causing simultaneous failure of more than one channel detail in subclause 6.4. The following information relates must also be adequately controlled. The same applies to to control systems (SRP/CS) that can be assigned to a Category 2, since the test equipment and its dedicated Category without being broken down into subsystems. It shut-off path also constitute a second channel. Essen- can however be applied by analogy to subsystems that tially, it can be said that many of the basic and well-tried perform only a part of a safety function. safety principles are effective not only against random hardware failures, but also against systematic faults that 6.2.2 ... and Categories may creep into the product at some point in the product life cycle, e.g. faults arising during product design or The Categories classify safety-related parts of a control modification. system (SRP/CS) with respect to their resistance to faults and their subsequent behaviour in the fault condition, 6.2.3 Category B based upon the reliability of the parts and/or their struc- tural arrangement (see Table 6.2, see Page 50). A higher The SRP/CS must be designed, constructed, selected, resistance to faults translates into a greater possible risk assembled and combined for the intended application in reduction. For definition of the probability of failure and accordance with the relevant standards with application of the PL, the Categories therefore form the backbone, of the basic safety principles in such a way that they can complementedby the component reliability (MTTF ), the resist: D tests (DC ), and the resistance to common cause failures avg (CCF). • The expected operating stresses (e.g. reliability with respect to breaking capacity and frequency) Category B is the basic Category, the requirements of which must also be met in all other Categories. In Catego- • The influence of the processed material (e.g. aggressive ries B and 1, the resistance to faults is attained primarily chemical substances, dusts, chips) by the selection and use of suitable components. The safety function may be rendered ineffective by the occur- • Other relevant external influences (e.g. mechanical rence of a fault. Category 1 has a greater resistance to vibration, electromagnetic interference, interruptions or faults than Category B owing to the use of special compo- disturbances in the power supply) nents and principles that are well-tried for safety applica- tions. With regard to electromagnetic compatibility (EMC), the standard refers to particular requirements stated in In Categories 2, 3 and 4, superior performance in terms of the relevant product standards, such as IEC 61800-3 for the specified safety function is attained primarily by struc- power drive systems. It emphasizes the importance of the tural measures. In Category 2, performance of the safety require ments for immunity to interference in particular function is generally checked automatically at regular for the functional safety of the SRP/CS. Where no pro- intervals by self-tests performed by technical test equip- duct standard exists, the requirements of IEC 61000-6-2 ment (TE). The safety function may fail however should a concerning immunity to interference should at least be fault arise between the test phases. By appropriate selec- ob served. Annex K contains a detailed description of EMC tion of the test intervals, a suitable risk reduction can and functional safety of machinery.be attained with application of Category 2. In Categories 49 6 Design of safe control systems Table 6.2: Summary of the requirements for Categories; the three right-hand columns show the essential changes from the Category definition in the first edition of the standard (EN 954-1) Cate- Summary of the requirements System behaviour Principle for MTTF DC CCF D avg gory attainment of of each safety channel B SRP/CS and/or their protective The occurrence of a Mainly Low to None Not equipment, as well as their compo- fault can lead to the characterized Medium relevant nents, shall be designed, construc- loss of the safety by selection of ted, selected, assembled and com- function. components bined in accordance with relevant standards so that they can with- stand the expected influence. Basic safety principles shall be used. 1 Requirements of B shall apply. Well- The occurrence of a Mainly High None Not tried components and well-tried fault can lead to the characterized relevant safety principles shall be used. loss of the safety func- by selection of tion but the probability components of occurrence is lower than for Category B. 2 Requirements of B and the use of The occurrence of a Mainly Low to At least Measures well-tried safety principles shall fault can lead to the characterized High Low required, apply. Safety function shall be loss of the safety by structure see Annex F checked at suitable intervals by the function between the machine control system (see Section checks. The loss of the 6.2.14). safety function is detec- ted by the check. 3 Requirements of B and the use of When a single fault oc- Mainly Low to At least Measures well-tried safety principles shall curs, the safety function characterized High Low required, apply. Safety-related parts shall be is always performed. by