chart provides an estimation erring on the safe ries, electrochemical sensors), mechanical components side. For Categories 3 and 4, the PFH values are valid for (such as brakes, clutches), electromechanical compo- D adequately high test frequencies (see explanations in nents (such as switches, relays, contactors), fluid power subclause 6.2.14). components (such as valves), and certain optical com- ponents (such as optocouplers). In this case, the user Should the mission time of an SRP/CS exceed 20 years, of the machine (operating party) is generally unable to the PFH values determined by means of the simplified assess whether all its components are also designed for D method (Annex K of the standard) are generally no longer an extended mission time, or what measures, such as valid. Under certain circumstances, this situation can preventive replacement of individual parts, proof tes- however be addressed within the simplified procedure ting, etc.,must be performed. Extension of the mission with a few improvements. Two possible scenarios exist: time – with addition of the allowance stated above to the PFH – is possible only when manufacturer's infor- D • In the first scenario, the SRP/CS is specified from the mation is available on the measures to be taken when outset for a mission time exceeding 20 years. The influ- the mission time is extended, and only conditional ence of the longer mission time can then be estimated upon these measures being implemented by the user erring on the safe side from the Markov models upon (operating party). which Annex K of the standard is based, as follows: for every five years' extension of the mission time beyond The columns for Category B and 1 in Figure G.1 were cal- 20 years, a further 15% is added to the PFH for Cate- culated by means of a model that considers the demand D gories 2, 3 and 4 (Categories B and 1 require no adjust- of the safety function, and the repair. The PFH values D ment of the PFH ). The simplified method and SISTEMA for these Categories can however be approximated very D can therefore still be used. This is conditional upon well by the simple relationship PFH ≈ λ = 1/MTTF . D D D constant failure rates, irrespective of the mission time. This means simply that the PFH of the single-channel D For parts subject to wear, this means that the parts un tested system (DC = 0) corresponds practically to its avg must be designed for the specified longer mission time dangerous failure rate. T (T ≥ T ), or each part must be replaced preventively M 10D M upon expiration of T . For the other Categories, however,reduction safety-related reliability. This will be explained in the fol- Figure 5.6: lowing examples. Stopping of drives 1 and 3 when the guard door is opened Example 1: Safety function “Stopping when the guard door is Drive 1 opened” Drive 2 When the guard door is opened, a machine operator has access to a danger zone in which five drives control the Position monitoring movements of machine parts. Opening the guard door Logic Drive 3 o f guard door causes all five drives to be brought to a halt as quickly as possible. Drive 4 When the PFH of the safety function is calculated later, D the PFH values of the following blocks2 are therefore Drive 5 D added: • Position monitoring of the guard door, including mecha- Example 2: nical components Safety function “Stopping of the drive when a guard door is opened” • Logic A hazardous movement is safeguarded by a fence with • Drives 1 to 5 five guard doors. Opening any of the doors halts the movement. Since a person will only ever open one of the The calculation may yield a PFH that is no longer ade- guard doors at once, each door constitutes a safety func- D quate for the application, even though it may be that tion in its own right, SF1 to SF5, which is composed of the only drives 1 and 3 initiate hazardous movements at the following blocks: instantaneous location of the operator, and the remaining drives are halted purely “functionally”. In this case, it is • Position monitoring of the guard door x (x = 1, 2, ... 5), recommended that only the movements actually presen- including mechanical components ting a hazard be considered for the purposes of the safety function, and that the safety function be reformulated ina more complex 10D me thod of calculation is required. The essential modelling • In the second case, the SRP/CS was originally designed method is explained below with reference to the example for a mission time of 20 years, but is now to be used of the "designated architecture" for Category 2. This struc- beyond this duration. The deterioration in the PFH ture is shown again in Figure G.2. D Triggering of Readback of test of I test response of O 297 fo foorP noitarepo I L O TE OTE Figure G.2: Designated architecture for Category 2 to EN ISO 13849-1, subclause 6.2.5 Annex G Five function blocks are present, of which the blocks I the left-hand side. Of the 32 failure combinations, those (input), L (logic) and O (output) execute the safety func- in which the system has failed dangerously and undetec- tion proper in a logical series arrangement. Block L tests tably (to itself) are grouped together for simplification of blocks I, O and itself in conjunction with the function the model. This collective state, denoted “System DU” block TE (test equipment). The function block OTE (output (dangerous undetectable), is shown on the right. It can be of TE) is capable of initiating a safe state in the event of attained from several states as a consequence of the fail- failure of the main I-L-O channel. The additional function ure of function blocks. The “Hazardous situation/harm” blocks TE and OTE, which are not directly essential to the state can be seen at the bottom of