construction. Consequently, and with knowledge of the MTTF is reached,nor as a precise prediction of the point D characteristic of the failure rate over time (Figure D.1), in time at which an individual component will fail. Once it becomes clear that a declared MTTF value should be the wear phase is reached, the failure behaviour changes D Annex D fundamentally and can no longer be described realisti- factors may differ. A very high MTTF may be assumed for D cally by a constant failure rate. mechanical and hydraulic components, which are opti- mized in their design and use for high reliability and low Desired side-effects of this classification are the rejec- wear. Random failures (in the constant failure rate phase) tion of MTTF values of < 3 years from each channel, and and wear failures are less significant for these compo- D the capping of higher MTTF values for each channel nents. Conversely, for the majority of electronic compo- D to a maximum of 100 years (this capping is raised to nents, the failure behaviour over the typical mission time 2,500 years for Category 4; these values are also to be of comparatively “cheap” industrial components is gene- assigned to the “high” class). Figure D.2 shows that with rally well described by a constant failure rate, since the an MTTF of three years, almost 30% dangerous failures wear phase is reached only under exacerbated operating D can be expected after just one year, which would appear conditions. The failure behaviour of electromechanical to be unacceptable for a safety-related control system. At or pneumatic components is very different again in its the other end of the scale, statistical validation of relia- nature. The wear phase of these components can easily bilities of > 100 years MTTF appears highly questionable be reached within the usual mission time. For this reason, D(this is acceptable in Category 4, since the other parame- the attainable number of successful operation cycles is ters determining the reliability, such as redundancy and generally stated as the parameter, rather than a lifetime in fault detection, already have a high level). Furthermore, a terms of a time or failure rate per unit time. Consideration residual probability of a dangerous failure within the mis- must be given to all these technology-specific aspects sion time remains at MTTF values of any magnitude, and during calculation of the MTTF value. For this reason, the D D may occur for other reasons (e.g. maloperation). It there- standard proposes differentiated procedures. fore appears inappropriate to validate high Performance Levels solely by the use of highly reliable components, D.2.1 MTTF of mechanical control components D without appropriate redundancy and fault detection. In the bar chart to EN ISO 13849-1, this conclusion is The approach employing constant failure rates is, unfor- expressed by the fact that no further MTTF range is shown tunately, not well suited to mechanical control com- D above the “high” MTTF class, even though this would be ponents. At the same time, almost all safety functions D possible according to the calculated probability. Higher involve mechanical control elements, at least where MTTF values are not capped to the maximum value of the sensors or actuators of mechanical control compo- D 100/2,500 years until the channel level, i.e. substantially nents are concerned that have the function for example higher MTTF values may be substituted in the calculation of detecting movements or stopping hazardous move- D for individual components. ments. Although it would often be possible for an MTTF D estimated erring on the safe side to be stated for these D.1.3 What is the origin of the data? components, fault exclusion isgenerally employed in this case. Provided the requirements for the fault exclusion A possible problem for users of the standard, particularly are observed and documented, this is generally the most at the point at which the revised EN ISO 13849-1 was first elegant means of considering the reliability of the mecha- published, was the lack of MTTF data for components nical components. These requirements include adequate D used in the SRP/CS [2]. In subclause 4.5.2, the standard resistance to the anticipated environmental influences, proposes a hierarchy of data sources. The first of these i.e. the validity of a fault exclusion depends upon the are manufacturer's data [M], followed by typical values selected application. Another requirement is that of ade- listed in the standard itself [S], and finally a very con- quate overdimensioning, which ensures for example that servatively estimated substitutional value of ten years. the mechanical components are subjected to stress only Since this substitutional value relates to a component, within the fatigue limit. If fault exclusion is not possible, and the lower limit of three years for the MTTF value is the good engineering practice procedure described below D soon reached where several components are employed may provide a means by which an MTTF value can be D in a channel, the MTTF values listed in the standard itself estimated. D were and are of particular importance. This will continue to be the case, at least until statement by the manufac- D.2.2 BIA-Report 6/2004, “Untersuchung des turers of MTTF values becomes the norm – including for Alterungsprozesses von hydrau lischen D components that were not developed from the outset for Wegeventilen” (study of the ageing use in SRP/CS. process of hydraulic directional control valves) D.2 Differences between technologies On hydraulic systems, valves warrant special conside- By its nature, thefailure mode of components varies ration as a “safety-related part of the control system”; strongly according to the technology employed, since valves that control hazardous movements or states, in the “bath-tub characteristic” and the relevance of wear particular, are extremely important for calculation of 267 Annex D the Performance Level. Experience has shown that the possible to calculate an MTTF for each individual year. D failure behaviour of hydraulic valves is characterized The MTTF rose, from 195 years in 2000 to 300 in 2003. D less by random failures than by failures due to