DC values ................................................................................................................92 7.4.4 Verification of the measures against CCF ..............................................................................................92enable safety functions to be implemented with ply (electric power, air pressure in pneumatic systems, a lower PL in cases where power is not available. r hy draulic fluid pressure) (see subclause 5.2.8 and Annex G of the standard). Voltage breakdown, voltage fluctua- Example 2: tions and overvoltage or undervoltage may for example Failure of pneumatic or hydraulic valves endanger the safe state of a machine. This particularly applies to the holding of loads in a raised position by Among the requirements of EN ISO 13849-2, Tables B.1 means of electrical and hydraulic drives (vertical axes). “Basic safety principles” and B.2 “Well-tried safety prin- Such disturbances may be caused by component faults ciples” for pneumatic systems are that attention must within the SRP/CS. In this case, their effects upon the Per- be paid to the “use of suitable materials and adequate formance Level are considered during verification. Should manufacturing” and the “proper avoidance of contami- however the cause lie in the mains supply, or should the nation of the fluid” during the design and manufacture mains disconnecting device (main switch) of the machine of pneumatic components. These requirements apply have been actuated, these cases lie beyond the scope above all to the selection of materials and the processes of quantitative analysis. They can be considered only as of manufacture and treatment in consideration of factors 46 6 Design of safe control systems such as stresses, durability, abrasion, wear, corrosion This requirement is illustrated well by the example of and temperature, and the consideration of highly effective the development of application software. The most far- filtration of the compressed air and the removal of solids reaching form of separation between standard applica- and water. The requirements upon hydraulic components tion software and safety-related application software are specified in a similar mannerin Tables C.1 and C.2. (SRASW, see subclause 6.3) is of course for them to be Here too, attention must be paid to “sufficient avoidance written with separate programming systems (engineering of contamination of the fluid” and “correct dimensioning suites) and run on separate PLCs. For economic reasons in and shaping”. particular, however, it is desirable for the entire applica- tion software to be written by means of a single program- Greater resistance to operating movement may neverthe- ming system, possibly in the same engineering process. less arise in fluid power components that are operated Numerous aspects must however be considered when infrequently, owing to their design features (gap between this approach is followed. These include the requirement the valving element and the enclosure): that safety-related variables, results or outputs must not be overwritten by non-safety-related parts of software • On pneumatic valves with soft seals that remain in the (program, function block, function/instruction, etc.). same switching position for a longer period, the seals Links between the two environments are permissible, may swell owing to chemical influences caused by the but only with the observance of specified conventions. lubricant (oil with additives in the compressed air, int- One such convention is that safety-related signals and roduced by the compressor, lubricator, or lubrication for functions must always retain priority: linking by means of life), or the lubricating film may collapse under the pres- an OR operation, for example, is not permitted under any sure of the seal edge, resulting in increased resistance circumstances. Modern software development tools sup- to operation. port such approaches, and specified functions and rules with automatic checking have been implemented in their • On hydraulic valves, silting may occur when the valve editors and compilers. Errors in logic operations, which remains in the same switching position fora longer may have an effect only in unpredictable operational situ- period. In this case, fine dirt particles are deposited in ations and which may not be detectable with reasonable the sealing gap between switching cycles, causing the effort during acceptance/commissioning, can thus be valving element to stick. prevented in a user-friendly manner. For these reasons, a high force surplus (e.g. spring force) This does not mean that the designer is spared a com- must generally be engineered for return of the valving ele- plete analysis of the influence exerted by functional ment to the “safety-oriented switching position”. On non- standard components of a control system upon its safety- mechanical springs, retention of the reset function must related parts (including the influence of the safety-related be assured by suitable measures. In addition, the effects functions upon each other); the analysis of where (tech- described above must be prevented by cyclical switching, nically) and how (functionally) such influences may arise to which the standard now refers. Failures caused by the is however considerably simplified and accelerated by the absence of switching are to be prevented by suitable swit- use of the development tools referred to above. The even ching cycles/test cycles at intervals for example of less more pertinent question, namely how to eliminate (avoid than eight hours. or control) influences that are detected, may not even arise. Example 3: Separation of safety-related and non-safety-related 6.1.3 Ergonomics functions Annex I, subclause 1.1.6 of the European 2006/42/EC Standards governing functional safety generally address Machinery Directive requires requires manufacturers of the separation of safety-related functions from other machines to reduce, at the design stage of the machine, (non-safety-related) functions. EN ISO 13849-2 is one the discomfort, fatigue and psychological stress faced by such example, regarding this separation for example as a the operatorto the greatest possible extent, taking into well-tried safety principle for electrical systems under the account ergonomic principles. This therefore also applies heading “Minimise possibility of faults”. This requirement to the interfaces between operators of a machine/ins- applies to both hardware and software. At the same time, tallation and the SRP/CS. These interfaces include both there may be reasons why complete separation is disad- the safeguards themselves, such as a guard door with vantageous. In such cases, clearly defined functional and position switch, and the operation of a safety function, for technical interfaces