also includes the specification of the safety citly addressed by the design process for the SRP/CS, it functions. This arrangement templaterefers to the SRP/CS is taken into account by the required content of the infor- that executes the entire safety function. Where the mation for use. SRP/CS takes the form of subsystems, the specification must be suitably adapted. Since an SRP/CS constitutes parts of a machine, requi- rements in virtually any phase of the machine's life cycle may also have an influence upon an SRP/CS. All phases 41 6 Design of safe control systems Figure 6.3: Life cycles of machines and SRP/CS Construction Use: - Set-up, teaching-in/programming Transport, assembly and installation and/or process changeover - Operation - Cleaning Commissioning - Maintenance - Troubleshooting Decommissioning, dismantling and Livecycle of the disposal machine to EN ISO 12100 Specification of the Validated Process of safety functions S s a o fe ft t w y- a re re late - d Validation Validation software specification risk reduction to EN ISO 12100 System Integration design tests Protective measure in the Module Module form of a control system design tests Software V model: Coding Chapter 6.3 Identification of safety functions (SFs) Specify the characteristics of each SF Determine the required PL (PL) r Start Implement the SFs, identify the SRP/CS Determ c i a n t e e g th o e ry P , L M o T f T th F e , S D R C P/ , C C S C f F rom the (Sec F A t a i n o u n n l e t 7 x l . i 1 s C . t 3 ) s and Desig ( n S c e o c n ti s o i n d e 6 r ) ations V ( a S li e d c a ti t o io n n 7 p .1l . a 2 n ) Val ( i S d e a c ti t o io n n p 7 r . i 1 n .1 c ) iples D avg Software and systematic failure Documents For (Section 7.1.4) each Analysis (Section 7.1.5) SF Verify: no fa C u r lt i t e e x ri c a lu fo si r o n PL = PL (Annex C) r Is analysis no yes sufficient? yes Validate: no Testing (Section 7.1.6) Requirements met? Safety functions (Section 7.3) yes Performance Level (PL) (Section 7.4) - Category Is testing no All SFs no - - - M D CC C T F TFD passed? analysed? - systematic faults yes - Software yes Combination/integration Validation report (Section 7.6) (Section 7.1.7) Design of safe End control systems: Chapter 6 Validation: Chapter 7 42 6 Design of safe control systems Box 6.1: General arrangement template for a safety requirements specification 1 General product and project information 1.1 Product identification 1.2 Author, version, date, document name, file name 1.3 Contents 1.4 Terminology, definitions, glossary 1.5 Version history and changes 1.6 Directives, standards and technical rules relevant to development 2 Functional information on the machine, where relevant to safety 2.1 Intended use and reasonably foreseeable misuse 2.2 Process description (operating functions) 2.3 Operating modes (e.g. setup mode, automatic mode, operation of localized relevance or of parts of the machine) 2.4 Characteristic data, e.g. cycle times, response times, overrun distances 2.5 Other characteristics of the machine 2.6 Safe state of the machine 2.7 Interaction between processes (see also 2.2) and manual actions (repair, setting, cleaning, troubleshooting, etc.) 2.8 Action to be taken in an emergency 2.9 Behaviour of the machine in the event of energy loss 3 Required Performance Level(s) (PL) r 3.1 Reference toexisting documentation concerning identified hazards and risk assessment for the machine 3.2 Results of the risk assessment for each identified hazard or hazardous situation and determination of the safety function(s) required in each case for risk reduction 4 Safety functions (information applies to each safety function; see also Table 4 in [23]) – Description of the function (“input – logic – output“) including all functional characteristics (refer also to Tables 5.1 and 5.2) – Activation/deactivation conditions or events (e.g. operating modes of the machine) – Behaviour of the machine when the safety function is triggered – Conditions to be observed for re-starting – Performance criteria/performance data – Process (timing behaviour) of the safety function, including response time – Frequency of actuation (i.e. demand rate), recovery time following demand – Other data – Adjustable parameters (where implemented) – Classification and assignment of priorities in the event of simultaneous demand upon and processing of multiple safety functions – Behaviour in the event of a power failure – Functional concept for separation or independence/freedom of reciprocal action from non-safety functions and further safety functions 5 Required information for the SRP/CS design 5.1 Allocation of the SRP/CS and the form of technology by which the safety function is to be implemented; intended equipment 5.2 Selection of the Category, designated architecture (structure) in the form of a safety-related block diagram and description 5.3 Description of the interfaces (process interfaces, internal interfaces, user interfaces, control and display elements, etc.) 5.4 Behaviour at switch-on, implementation of the required starting and restarting behaviour 5.5 Performance data: cycle times, response times, etc. 43 6 Design of safe control systems 5.6 Behaviour of the SRP/CS in the event of component failures and faults (achieving and maintenance of the safe state), including timing behaviour 5.7 Failure modes of components, modules orblocks that are to be considered; where applicable, reasoning for fault exclusions 5.8 Concept for implementation of the detection and control of random and systematic failures (self-tests, test circuits, monitoring arrangements, comparisons, plausibility tests, fault detection by the process, etc.) 5.9 Quantitative aspects 5.9.1 Target values for MTTF and DC D avg 5.9.2 Switching frequency of components subject to wear 5.9.3 Frequency of measures for fault detection 5.9.4 Mission time, where different from the assumption upon which the designated architecture is based (20