and K1 to K4. Figure 8.48: Inching mode with safely limited speed on a printing press with two-channel microprocessor control Open + + + * According to EN 1010 only one position switch (B1) is provided, Closed B1* B1.1 B1.2 S1 generally two position switches are required Inching K1 K2 Inputs Inputs L Functional Monitoring I/O module I/O module Outputs Outputs T1 Functional bus Setpoint, start/stop Frequency inverter with STO Monitoring bus Feedback STO1 + + K3 K4 Inputs Inputs Functional PLC Monitoring PLC Driver power supply Readback Outputs Outputs STO2 P1 G1 M1 M n G2 3 n Safety functions • Safety-related stop function, initiated by a safeguard: the drive is to stop when the guard door is opened (SS1-r – safe stop 1, monitoring of the deceleration ramp, and STO following standstill). • Safely limited speed (SLS): when the guard door is open, machine movements may occur only at limited speed. • Inching mode: when the guard door is open, movements are possible only whilst an inching button is pressed. 186 8 Circuit examples for SRP/CS B1.1 G2 K1 K3 T1 B1.2 G1 K2 K4 Functional description • The remote I/O module K1 registers the states of the position switch withpersonnel safety function B1 fitted to the safeguard and of the inching button S1, and makes these states available on the functional bus. This information is interpreted by the functional PLC K3 and results in the stop function on the frequency inverter T1 being initiated when the guard door is opened. A signal for the fastest possible stop is transmitted over the functional bus for this purpose. The I/O module K2 and the monitoring PLC K4, which communicate over a dedicated monitoring bus, operate redundantly to K1 and K3. The deceleration ramp is monitored in the functional PLC K3 through the enco- der G2 and in the monitoring PLC K4 through the encoder G1. Once a standstill has been reached, or in the event of detection of a fault during stopping, the integral STO safety function is initiated by K3 and K4 via the two STO inputs STO1 and STO2 of T1. • The open state of the safeguard is detected in K3 and K4 via B1, K1 and K2 as described above. K3 and K4 then monitor the specified limited speed (SLS) redundantly of each other through G2 and G1. If this speed is exceeded, K3 and K4 initiate SS1-r independently of each other, as described above. • With B1 actuated, only inching mode by means of S1 with safely limited speed is permissible. Releasing of S1 is detected redundantly in K1 to K4 and leads, as described above for the safety-related stop function and SLS, to safe stop 1 of the drive (SS1-r). • In accordance with EN 1010-1, a single position switch B1 is sufficient. The majority of faults in S1 are detected and controlled by a special actuating procedure, which forces a signal change: when S1 is pressed for the first time, an acoustic warning (signalgenerator P1) is output; only when S1 is released and pressed again does the drive start up, with delay. • Faults in K1 and K2 are detected by a status comparison in K4. K4 also monitors K3 by monitoring the input and output information. Some faults in K3 also become evident through faults in the process. Self-tests (e.g. temporal program sequence monitoring by an internal watchdog) are performed in K4; in addition, K3 uses K4 for regular selection of STO1, and monitors the feedback signal from T1. • Together with the sin/cos encoder G1, the frequency inverter T1 forms a closed-loop control system in which faults (printing errors, paper tears) are revealed by the production process, which is highly synchronous. The encoder signals from G1 on the motor shaft are also read into K4 and monitored in T1 for plausibility of the sin/cos infor- mation (sin2 + cos2 = 1). Redundantly to this, the signals from a diversely engineered encoder G2 on the machine shaft are also interpreted. Although the two encoders are not located on the same shaft, their values, read into K4/K3 and converted into paper speeds, can be compared in K4, thereby providing fault detection for G1 and G2. Fault detection for STO1 in T1 is implemented by provision of a feedback signal that is interpreted in K3. Correct execution of STO2 is monitored by internal test measures in T1; in the event of a fault, these measures initiate stop- ping. Design features • Basic and well-tried safety principles are observed and the requirements of Category B are met. Protective circuits (such as contact protection) as described in the initial paragraphs of Chapter 8 are implemented. • The break contacts of B1 satisfy IEC 60947-5-1, Annex K, and B1 complies with DGUV Information 203-079 governing the selectionor components, i.e. his technical data at least 65 of a possible 100 points must be attained (for sheet, should be given preference here over all other details, see Annex F). sources. Many component manufacturers already provide such data. Even where manufacturers‘ data are not avail- The random hardware failures, which can be controlled able however, typical example values can be obtained by a good structure and by low probability of failure, are from established databases (such as SN 29500 or accompanied by the broad field of systematic faults – IEC/TR 62380). The standard and Annex D of this report i.e. faults inherent to the system since its design, such also list a number of realistic values obtained from the as dimensioning faults, software faults, or logical faults field, and provide information on modelling in the safety- – against which protection is to be provided by meas- related block diagram. ures for fault avoidance and control. The software faults account for a large proportion of such faults. Since its The effectiveness of diagnostics, in the form of the DC second edition, the standard has included the requi- avg value (average diagnostic coverage), can be determined rements upon the safety-related software;