for performance • A microcontroller of the safety function or for some other safety-related action (e.g. power supplies, oscillators) are able to influ- • A light barrier for the monitoring of hazard zones ence one channel only, they should be grouped with the function block(s) of the channel concerned. Should • A “watchdog” for the detection of certain controller mal- these auxiliary circuits act upon several channels, they functions form a separate single-channel part (function block) on the safety-related block diagram. The same principle • A closed-loop motor drive control (frequency inverter) applies to circuits that are able to prevent performance driven by the controller of the safety function, another safety-related action or diagnostics owing to a particular manner of their failure. • A device for de-energization of the motor that can be Examples include circuits for selection of a safe operating actuatedby the watchdog (pulse inhibit) Activation of Readback of light barrier test shut-off test Figure B.1: Example safety- related block diagram of a Category 2 single- channel machine control system 225522 reggirT seslup Light Microcontroller Electronic barrier control system drive 2nd De- Watch- energization dog device The safety function entails de-energization of the motor The safety-related block diagram contains only function as soon as, and for as long as, the light beam of the light blocks that are related to the “safe torque off” safety barrier is interrupted (“safe torque off”). Besides the function; it does not contain control or display devices safety function, the microcontroller and the downstream for other machine functions. In the event of a fault, some drive control perform a number of other machine func- components in these circuit parts may have negative tions which, since they are not safety functions, will not repercussions for the safety function. Only then should be considered here. Although in this example, the safety these components be included in the function blocks that function is implemented entirely electrically, the princip- they could cause to fail. les described for the safety-related block diagram and the FMEA apply to all technologies. The safety-related block diagram will often take the form of one of the “designated architectures” in accordance with EN ISO 13849-1, subclause 6.2.2 (subclauses 6.2.1 to Annex B 6.2.7 of this report), as in the example presented here. In In both cases, the dangerous (i.e. unfavourable from a such cases, the method described in subclause 4.5.4 of safety perspective) failure rate, specifically its reciprocal, the standard (supplemented by Annexes B, C, D, E, I and the MTTF (mean time to dangerous failure), and the DC D K of the standard) may be applied for quantitative calcula- (diagnostic coverage) of the functionblocks in the safety- tion of the Performance Level. It is not advisable however related block diagram must be known. For calculation to shoehorn a different structure into the form of one of of these values, a special variation of the FMEA is used these architectures. It may be possible to break an exis- that employs the component failure rates in the form of ting system structure down into parts each of which then quantitative values. The special form of the FMEA used corresponds to a designated architecture. here differs in this respect from the majority of other FMEA types, which are used for other purposes such as the early Should a breakdown of this kind not be possible, a dedi- detection of problems and fault avoidance during deve- cated model must be produced for quantitative calcula- lopment [2]. tion of the safety-related reliability for the safety-related block diagram concerned. An introduction to suitable A particular feature of an FMEA for quantification purpo- modelling techniques can be found for example in [1]. ses is its structure according to the function blocks of the safety-related block diagram. The principle is that a sepa- B.2 Purpose and characteristic of an FMEA rate FMEA is performed for each of these function blocks, for quantification and produces results only for the function block concer- ned. The results for each function block are not combined For quantitative demonstration of the PL, the average until later, by inclusion together in the calculation of the probability of a dangerous failure per hour (PFH ) must PFH /PL by way of a system-specific mathematical model D D be estimated. This can be achieved with the aid of a or the simplified quantification method in EN ISO 13849-1. mathematical model (e.g. a Markov model) generated for the system underconsideration. If however the form of B.2.1 Performance of an FMEA for quantifica- one of the “designated architectures” in accordance with tion subclauses 6.2.3 to 6.2.7 can be identified formally from the safety-related block diagram, as in the example in The essential procedure employed for an FMEA for quanti- Figure B.1, the method in this standard referred to above fication is demonstrated below with reference to the “light can be applied for quantitative calculation of the PL. barrier” function block from Figure B.2. S1 X1.4 Test X1.5 + R1 R3 C1 R7 P1 K1 R2 R5 K2 K3 R9 X1.2 P2 V Figure B.2: X1.3 R4 R6 R8 Assumed circuit (simple X1.1 example) of the “light - barrier” function block from the safety-related block diagram from “Light barrier” function block Figure B.1 For this purpose, the circuit has deliberately been kept the function block within the system in accordance with simple. Only components framed by the dashed line Figure B.1. As long as the phototransistor K1 continues belong to the function block. The elements S1 and P2 to receive light from the infrared LED P1, it maintains the constitute a substitute circuit for the actual inclusion of transistor K2 blocked, as a result of which the transistor 225533 Annex B K3 is conductive and a positive output voltage, which can block to performance of the safety function: “safe torque be measured by the voltmeter P2, is present on terminal off when the light beam is interrupted”. X1.2. If the light beam is interrupted, K1 blocks, K2 beco- mes conductive and