is less than 100 years (2,500 years for Category 4). It is D further simplification is made in the form of a classifica- therefore generally more effective to implement channels tion. The calculated values are assigned to three typical of balanced reliability wherever possible. Irrespective of classes (Table 6.3). the number and form of the channels, this method always produces an MTTF value for a single control channel D Table 6.3: which, averaged over the control system, indicates the Classification of the MTTF of each channel level of component reliability. D MTTF for each channel 6.2.14 Diagnostic coverage of test and D Description Range monitoring measures – DC Not suitable 0 years ≤ MTTF < 3 years D A further variable with a major influence upon the PL are Low 3 years ≤ MTTF < 10 years D the (self-)test and monitoring measures in SRP/CS. Effec- Medium 10 years ≤ MTTF < 30 years D tive tests for example permit some compensation to be High 30 years ≤ MTTF ≤ 100 years D made for poor reliability of the components. The quality Permissible only in 100 years < MTTF ≤ 2,500 years D of the tests is measured in EN ISO 13849-1 by the diag- Category 4 nostic coverage (DC). The DC is defined as the proportion of detected dangerous failures among all conceivable dangerous failures. The reference quantity may be a com- A mean (important: not guaranteed) lifetime of less than ponent, a block, or the entire SRP/CS. In the last of these three years is deemed not reasonable for safety engi- cases, the DC is the average diagnostic coverage DC , avg neering components. Other than for Category4, values which has an important function in the simplified quanti- exceeding 100 years may not be substituted; this prevents fication of the PL by means of the bar-chart method. the component reliability being overstated in compari- son with the other main influencing variables such as As at many other points in the standard, two methods the structure or tests. Should a figure of less than three exist for calculation of the DC : one more precise but avg years actually be produced for a channel, the components more complex; the other simpler, involving a series of should be replaced with more reliable alternatives, since estimations erring on the safe side. The precise, com- even PL a cannot otherwise be attained. Values over plex method involves a failure mode and effects analysis 100 years for the mean lifetime are not unusual, but owing (FMEA) and is based upon the DC definition. In this case, to “capping”, do not have any bearing upon the PL above the dangerous detectable (DD) and dangerous undetec- this value, since the maximum value of 100 years (the table (DU) failure modes for each component are deter- maximum value in Category 4 is 2,500 years) is substi- mined, together with their proportions of the total failure tuted in this case for the component reliability. rate of the component. Finally, summation and formation of the ratio produces the DC value for the unit under con- If several channels are involved in a control system, it sideration: is not initially clear which value should be employed as representative for the entire system. A cautious approach 57 6 Design of safe control systems Σ λ Σ λ be considered with which a demand is made upon the DD DD DC= = (3) safety function, in order to ensure an