displayed virtually instantly: each parameter change is mines, among other things, whether the control system reflected immediately on the user interface with its impact is of single-channel, single-channel tested or redundant upon the entire system. Users are for the most part spared design, and whether a special test channel must be consi- time-consuming consultation of tables and calculation dered during evaluation. Each channel can be subdivided using formulae (calculation of the MTTF by means of in turn into any desired number of blocks, for which either D the parts count method, symmetrization of the MTTF for an MTTF value and a DC value are entered directly, or – D D each channel, estimation of the DC , calculation of the on the lowest level in the hierarchy – the values for the avg PFH and PL,etc.), since these tasks are performed by the individual elements of which the block is composed. D software. This enables parameter values to be varied and BL = block PR = project SF = safety function EL1 EL2 SB = subsystem EL = element CH = channel EL3 EL4 I1 L1 O1 I2 L2 O2 TE = test channel TE OTE Figure H.1: Hierarchy levels considered in SISTEMA 301 Annex H User-friendly library functions complete SISTEMA's range log in the editing view. Each input dialog is further sub- of features. Many manufacturers of components provide divided into different areas by tabs. The final tab in each libraries of their products' data. Links to these libraries input dialog contains a table summarizing all lower-level can be found on the IFA's website (www.dguv.de/ifa, branches and listing the main information. If, for example, Webcode: e92603). Users can however create libraries of a block in the tree view is marked, this table shows all their own, in which they can store subsystems that they elements contained within the block, together with their have developed themselves, or frequently used compo- MTTF and DC values. D nents. Libraries can be stored either locally, or centrally on servers. The tree view also shows status information for each basic element. The status information takes the form of H.3 The SISTEMA user interface a coloured marker adjacent to the branch. A red cross indicates that a condition of the standard is not satisfied, The SISTEMA user interface is divided into four areas a limit value is exceeded, or that a required value cannot (see Figure H.2). The greatest part of the user interface is be calculated owing to a general inconsistency. A warning occupied by the workspace in the centre. Depending upon is output in this case. A yellowdot indicates the presence which view is active, the workspace contains an editable of a message (as for example when a basic element has input dialog or a partial view of the overview document. not yet been assigned a name). All other basic elements The content of the active view is determined by the basic are marked with a green tick. The colour marking is also element selected from the hierarchy described above, always inherited by the branches higher up in the hierar- which is selected from a tree view on the left-hand side. chy, red having the highest and green the lowest priority. Each branch in the tree view represents one basic ele- All warnings and information concerning the active basic ment. Basic elements can be created, deleted, moved or element are displayed in the message window below the copied on different levels in the tree view. The details of workspace. the selected basic element are entered in the input dia- Figure H.2: SISTEMA user interface The area below the tree view shows the main context In addition to its flexibility, the SISTEMA user interface is information for the selected basic element. This informa- notable for its ease of use and intuitiveness. Context help tion comprises the PL, PFH , MTTF , DC and number of on the right-hand side is intended to facilitate the lear- D D avg CCF points of the higher-level subsystem, and the PL, PL ning process. r and PFH of the higher-level safety function (this applies, D of course, only to basic elements on lower hierarchy levels). The consequences of changes in the displayed parameters are thus displayed immediately. 302 Annex H H.4 Where can SISTEMA be obtained from? After registering, you can download the SISTEMA software free of charge from www.dguv.de/ifa, Webcode e34183.• Logic consideration of the drives critical to the operator‘s safety. The associated functional diagram is shown in Figure 5.6. • Drive If more than one drive is involved in the hazardous Figure 5.7 shows the functional diagram and blocks of the movements in the danger zone under consideration, the safety function SF3. hazards are considered overlapping. If the number of drives to be considered is too high, the sum of the PFH Figure 5.7: D values of the individual drives may once again be a total Stopping of the drive when guard door 3 is opened PFH that is too high for the required PL of the safety D function. The revised standard makes provision for consi- Positioning monitoring deration of overlapping hazards. Accordingly, the hazards of guard door 1 considered in the safety function in question can under certain circumstances be reduced to discrete hazards, i.e. Positioning monitoring the hazardous machine movements can be reduced to the of guard door 2 movements of discrete parts of the machine. Whether this is possible in a given case must be determined during the Positioning monitoring Logic Drive risk assessment. Assistance in this context is provided by of guard door 3 Annex J of the present report and by [24]. Positioning monitoring of guard door 4 Positioning monitoring of guard door 5 2 Possible faults in the electrical system are assigned to the relevant blocks. 31 5 Safety functions and their contribution to risk reduction Example 3: The examples show the advantage of a “local approach” Safety function “Stopping of all drives when the emer- for definition of