wear. The A significant relationship was observed between valve causes of such failures are primarily systematic, such failures and operating/environmental conditions, since as excessive stress, unfavourable conditions of use, or the maintenance measures and operating conditions in lack of maintenance. In order for the lifetime of hydraulic User B's facility had been improved continually over the valves to be estimated better, the IFA (at that time still years. In addition, the operating conditions were superior the BGIA) launched a degree thesis on the subject, the to those in User A's plant owing to further measures, such results of which are available in the form of BIA-Report as monitoring of the fluid temperature; larger fluid reser- 6/2004, “Untersuchung des Alterungsprozesses von voirs, generally located outside the machine; finer return hydraulischen Wegeventilen” [3] (study of the ageing line filters; and flue gas discharge systems for reducing process of hydraulic directional control valves). Since the impurities in the ambient atmosphere. The study valves that assume control tasks are generally piston-type showed that, in conjunction with the type, quality, and directional control valves, the MTTF values for “hydraulic level of contamination of the hydraulic fluid used and the D components” were determined on valves of this type. The design, materialand type of the centering/return spring, most important results of this study are presented briefly the cylindrical guides of the components in valves, e.g. below. spool valves, had a substantial influence upon the antici- pated lifetime of hydraulic piston-type directional control Estimation of an MTTF value is based in the first instance valves. A clear relationship was also established between D upon failure rates for hydraulic piston-type directional the quality of the operating conditions and the attained control valves that were determined in a study conducted lifetime to failure over a defined period of observation. in the maintenance departments of two large-scale users of hydraulic equipment (referred to below as users A and D.2.3 MTTF of hydraulic control components D B). The failure rates were determined by the evaluation of computer data (quantities of re-ordered hydraulic Based upon the results of the above study, an MTTF D piston-type directional control valves, repair reports) of 150 to 1,200 years is proposed in EN ISO 13849-1 for and involvement in maintenance work. In addition to the hydraulic components, provided certain conditions are failure data for the valves, the operating conditions were met. The valves studied were primarily of the piston type. also taken into account. The comparability of the MTTF Owing to the similarity in failure behaviour, however, D values determined for the different users of hydraulic sys- the lifetime MTTF determined for these valves serves D tems is therefore assured. For validation and confirmation as a good estimation for all safety-related hydraulic of these data, further failure data were collected by a sur- valves. This is however conditional upon observance vey of valve manufacturers. In the case of User A, the fail- during design and manufacture of the basic and well- ure rates for the directional control valves were recorded triedsafety principles described in EN ISO 13849-2 for in the maintenance department of a transmission pro- hy draulic valves. The basic and well-tried safety principles duction plant. Data were available for all failures of direc- for application, likewise described in EN ISO 13849-2, tional control valves over a period of 38 months, during must also be stated by the valve manufacturer (in the which 143 directional control valves failed. Approximately manufacturer's data, operating conditions) and observed 8,050 directional control valves of various ages were in in practice. use on the machines, for the most part machine tools, in the transmission production plant. If a constant failure Annex C.2, Table C.1 of EN ISO 13849-2 states the basic rate is assumed during this period, an MTTF of 178 years safety principles for hydraulic systems. The most impor- D can be calculated as the reciprocal of the failure rate from tant principles include the use of suitable materials and the data for User A. At this user's plant, the operating con- manufacturing procedures, and the principles of isolation, ditions specified by the manufacturers were observed for pressure limitation, protection against unexpected start- the most part on the hydraulic systems. Since the facility up, and a suitable temperature range (for further details, primarily comprised new production lines, condition- see Annex C). based maintenance was performed. Annex C.3, Table C.2 of EN ISO 13849-2 lists well-tried The failure data for the directional control valves at User safety principles for hydraulic systems. The most impor- B's facility were likewise recorded in the maintenance tant principles comprise overdimensioning/safety factors, department of a transmission production plant. Appro- speed limitation/reduction by means of a resistance for ximately 25,000 directional control valves varying in age attainment of a defined volumetric flow, force limita- were in use in this case.Data were available for all direc- tion/reduction, an appropriate range for the operating tional control valves that had failed over a period of four conditions, monitoring of the condition of the pressure years (2000 to 2003). In contrast to User A's situation, the medium, the use of well-tried springs, and sufficient over- failure data for each year were available. It was therefore 268 Annex D lap in piston-type valves (for further details, refer again to • System and operating conditions Annex C). • Operation functions and conditions • Rate of operations and durability Experience gained through application of the second edi- • Protection against over-current and over-temperature tion of the standard has shown that for hydraulic valves, • Protection against over-voltage the frequency of actuation n (number of actuations per • Special conditions of use op year, see subclause D.2.4) is also a relevant parameter for the reliability. For this reason, the third edition of the The manufacturers provide manuals containing com- standard states graded MTTF values of between 150 prehensive information on selection and engineering. D and 1,200 years for hydraulic valves (see Table D.2) as a function of n as part of the good engineering