determining the Performance level to be permissible. A maximum of 100 points can be reached. Channel 1 Channel 2 CCF: Common Cause Failure: λ λ The following points must be observed during evaluation D D the same cause leads to failure of both channels of the measures: • The measures must be evaluatedwith particular consideration for their effectiveness against CCF. For β factor: example, the product standards already require immu- Ratio of CCF rate to failure rate nity to environmental influences and electromagnetic of one channel, interference. Supplementary evaluation must be per- CCF rate = β · λ β·λ D formed of whether these influences have been effec- D tively minimized as sources of common cause failures. It is virtually impossible to calculate the beta factor pre- • The physical counter-measures differ according to the cisely for a specific control system, particularly since this control technology employed: of the environmental should be done at the beginning of the actual design influences, for example, electromagnetic interference is process. IEC 61508-6 [1] employs a points system for this more relevant in the case of electrical control systems, 293 Annex F whereas contamination of the fluid is more relevant in • Assessment/analysis (5 points): a failure mode and the case of fluid control systems. Counter-measures effects analysis has been performed for each part of must therefore be evaluated with consideration for the the SRP/CS, and its results taken into account during technology employed. design for the avoidance of CCF • The tested structure of Category 2 systems constitutes a • Competence/training (5 points): training of designers in special case. In this case, CCF concerns common failure understanding the causes and consequences of CCF of both the functional channel and the test channel. A common cause failure results in the structural benefit • Environmental conditions concerning protection against being negated. The evaluation of the measures must adverse influences upon electrical/electronic and fluid be adjusted accordingly to the particular aspects of the power systems (25 points): Category 2 structure. – Electrical/electronic systems: prevention of • The full number of points may be credited for a measure contaminationand electromagnetic disturbances against common cause failures that cannot occur owing (EMC) in accordance with appropriate standards to the inherent characteristics of the control system. – Fluid power systems: filtration of the pressure The measures against common cause failures and the medium, prevention of dirt intake, drainage of associated numbers of points from EN ISO 13849-1 are as compressed air, for example in compliance with the follows: component manufacturer's requirements for purity of the pressure medium • Separation/segregation (15 points): physical separation between the signal paths, e.g.: On combined fluid power and electrical systems, both aspects should be considered. – Separation in wiring/piping • Environmental conditions with regard to other influen- – Detection of short-circuits and open circuits by ces (10 points): consideration of the requirements for dynamic testing immunity to all relevant environmental conditions, such as temperature, shock, vibration, humidity (for example – Separate shielding for the signal path of each as specified in the relevant standards) channel Reference – Sufficient clearances and creepage distances on printed-circuit boards [1] IEC 61508-6: Functional safety of electrical/elec- tronic/programmable electronic safety-related • Diversity (20 points): different technologies/design or systems – Part 6: Guidelines on the application of physical principles are used. Examples include: IEC 61508-2 and IEC 61508-3 (2010) – One channel electronic or programmable electronic, the other electromechanical hard-wired – Different initiation of the safety function for each channel, for example by means of position, pressure or temperature – Digital and analogue measurement of variables (e.g. distance, pressure or temperature) – Sourcing of components from different manufac- turers • Design/application/experience: protection against overvoltage, overpressure, overcurrent, overtempera- ture, etc. (15 points) and the use of well-tried compo- nents (5 points) 294 Annex G: What is the significance of the bar chart in Figure 5 of EN ISO 13849-1? For a comprehensible diagramto be obtained, certain Changes with respect to the second edition restrictions and simplifications are necessary. Firstly, the (BGIA Report 2/2008e): standard limits the number of designated architectures and therefore also the number of necessary models. • Reference to Note 1 in Annex K of the new standard Secondly, the large number of input parameters has been reduced by intelligent grouping. For this purpose, the • Explanations from subclause 4.5.4 of the standard of values MTTF and DC were introduced, each of which D avg the time aspects during testing brought into line with groups several input parameters. the new standard The MTTF used in the diagram represents a mean time to D • Explanations inserted concerning extension of the failure of each channel in its dangerous failure mode. The mission time beyond 20 years MTTF values of several function blocks are grouped here D to form a single channel MTTF (Chapter 6 and Annex D). D • “Reference” subclause updated All MTTF values are based upon the assumption of con- D stant component failure rates λ , hence MTTF = 1/λ . D D D • Sequence of the images brought into line with the text In a two-channel structure with different MTTF values D between channels, an averaged substitute MTTF value is D employed. Conversely, the DC represents the weighted avg Unlike its predecessor, EN 954-1 [1], EN ISO 13849-1 makes average value of the diagnostic coverage for the entire provision for demonstration of a Performance Level (PL) in system; this value is used for assignment to one of the addition to examination of the Category. The Performance four DC levels (see Table 6.4). avg Level is determined numerically, as shown in Table 6.1 of this report, from the average probability of a dangerous The meaningfulness and permissibilityof this grouping failure per hour (PFH ) of the system (cf. Footnote 4 in within the required quantification accuracy have been D Chapter 3, Page 15). This value must be determined from demonstrated by comprehensive test calculations. The the system structure, the failure rates of the components, same applies to