ISO 13849-1, the structure of a safety-related features of this kind must be expressed correctly on the system must be analysed with respect to the safety func- safety-related block diagram. The differentiated presenta- tion to be implemented (possibly involving separate ana- tion of a true two-channel arrangement and a monitored lysis of several functions). For the obligatory quantitative single channel can be seen clearly from a comparison of demonstration of the PL, system information must be Figures 10 and 11 in the standard. suitably prepared to permit calculation of the quantitative value PFH (probability of a dangerous failure per hour), or Consideration must also be given to whether components D direct calculation of the PL based upon it. Two important or circuit elements are present which, although they do steps in this process are the safety-related block diagram not execute the safety function or the safety-related sub- and the failure mode and effects analysis (FMEA) per- stitute function in the event of a fault, may be able to pre- formed for each block 2. vent other components from properly executing the safety or substitute function should certain component failures B.1 Purpose and generation of a occur. Such circuit components include those providing safety-related block diagram necessary auxiliary functions such as the power supply or control functions that are not (intentionally) relevant to The result of the safety-oriented analysis of the system safety but that may have an impact upon safety-related structure is presented conveniently in theform of a block parts. Where components and parts of circuits may diagram, which can be described as a “safety-related impact negatively upon the safety function, its substitute block diagram”. The diagram is intended to show whether function, or diagnostics functions in the event of failures, the safety function is executed in whole or part by a sin- they must always be considered in a function block. For gle-channel or multi-channel solution, and the available example, components for assurance of electromagnetic diagnostics by which internal component failures can be compatibility (EMC) must be examined with regard to detected. Since – with regard to the aspect of relevance whether their failure, for example short-circuiting of a here, i.e. quantification of the probabilities of failure – capacitor, has negative effects upon safety-related cir- diagnostics represents a means of compensating for com- cuits. ponent failures, the term “failure detection” will be used in this Annex in place of the usual term “fault detection”. Parts of circuits with defined inputs and outputs may be regarded as a function block. In order to keep the In the field of machine safety, it is generally accepted number of required function blocks as low as possible, that in the event of a control-system failure, a substitute parts of circuits that are arranged functionally in series, response should occur in place of the safety function i.e. circuits that execute different signal processing steps originally implemented, and that the substitute reaction sequentially, can be grouped to form a function block. Blocks differing from this arrangement should logically 2 The FMEA described here also considers the detection of fai- be grouped only to the extent that redundancies such as lures (diagnostics), and can therefore also be termed FMEDA separate shut-off paths and the mutual diagnostics of (failure mode, effects andtypical values in the good engineering Annex D, MTTF D D practice method Annex E, DC Two DC measures deleted Annex E, DC “Fault detection by the process” described in more detail Annex I, Examples Updating Not relevant 23 24 5 Safety functions and their contribution to risk reduction i Provided a harmonized product-specific standard (Type C Changes with respect to the second edition standard) exists for the machine being designed and (BGIA Report 2/2008e): the reference of this standard has been published in the Official Journal of the EU [18], it may be assumed • References to standards updated that the essential health and safety requirements are satisfied. In such cases, the standard is said to give rise • “Overlapping hazards” included to a “presumption of conformity”, since its application justifies the assumption that the machine satisfies the • Information on the F1/F2 distinction updated requirements of the EC Machinery Directive. The strategy for risk reduction must however always be followed where • Consideration for the “probability of a hazardous a standard giving rise to the presumption of conformity event occurring” inserted does not exist, where a suitable standard exists but the design has deviated from it, or where additional aspects • Subclause 5.4.2, “Transition from a required Category apply that are not covered by the product standard. In in accordance with EN 954-1 to a PL” deleted order for issues not covered by a product standard to be r identified, the first two steps in the risk reduction strategy • Example of a paper cutting guillotine revised described below must always be performed, i.e. the limits of the machinery must be defined and the hazards iden- tified. This Report deals with safety functions and their contribu- 5.2 Risk reduction strategy tion to reducing risks in hazard zones ondiagnostic analysis). 251 Annex B function blocks are still expressed. The circuit analysis mode, or certain components for the assurance of EMC. must ultimately produce a block diagram in which all the The content of each function block must be determined structures that are of relevance to safety are reflected: unambiguously by circuit diagrams and parts lists. Owing to the way in which it is created and its particular func- • Single or parallel signal paths (“channels”) that are tion, the safety-related block diagram differs generally used to execute the safety function from block diagrams serving other purposes, such as those geared to the mechanical structure of assemblies. • Signal paths that execute a safety-related substitute function in the event of a fault Figure B.1 shows, by way of example, the safety-related block diagram of a Category 2 single-channel machine • Circuits for the detection of failures (diagnostics) control system featuring: Where auxiliary circuits that are required