testing is per- decision regarding the serviceability. Complete merging formed immediately when a demand is made upon the of TE with the functional channel is not acceptable, as safety function, and the overall time for detection of the for example in the case of an on-chip watchdog without fault and for bringing the machine into a non-hazardous the separation described in IEC 61508-2, Annex E (Spe- state (the machine is generally stopped) is shorter than cial architecture requirements for integrated circuits the time to reach the hazard (see also EN ISO 13855). with on-chipredundancy) or test equipment that is engineered only in the form of software and accesses Owing to these restrictions and to the fact that with the OTE directly by means of a de-energizing signal gene- designated architecture, a DC of over 90% is difficult to rated by software. avg 52 6 Design of safe control systems • Subclause 6.2.14 and Annex E provide further informa- Figure 6.7: tion, in particular on the required test rate, reliability of Designated architecture for Category 3: dashed lines indicate the test equipment, initiation of the test (automatically, reasonably practicable fault detection manually, in response to a demand of the safety func- tion) and diagnostics measures. II11 LL11 OO11 6.2.6 Category 3 EIinngpauntg LLooggiikc AOusugtapnugt In addition to the requirements for Category B (e.g. the application of basic safety principles), Category 3 SRP/CS must embody well-tried safety principles and be designed II22 LL22 OO22 such that a single fault does not result in loss of the safety EIinnpgauntg LLooggiikc AOusugtapnugt function. Whenever reasonably practicable, a single fault Interconnection must be detected at or prior to the next demand of the safety function. Monitoring (reasonably practicable fault detection) Cross monitoring (reasonably practicable fault detection) Values ranging from low to high may be selected for the MTTF of each channel. Since not all faults need be D detected or the accumulation of undetected dangerous faults may lead to a hazardous situation, a low DC is consideration of a fault combination for two faults may avg the minimum requirement. Refer to subclause 6.2.14 for be sufficient.) issues relating to the test rate. Adequate measures must be taken against common cause failure (CCF). Since this is the Category with the greatest resistance to faults (the greatest contribution to risk reduction), both The requirement of single-fault tolerance does not theMTTF of each channel and the DC must be high (see D avg necessarily mean that a two-channel system must be subclause 6.2.14 for the issue of the test rate), and ade- implemented, since single-channel components with quate measures must be taken against CCF. no potential for dangerous failure (fail-safe design), for example, may also be tolerant of single faults. The same Since the differences between this Category and Category applies to systems with a high standard of monitoring 3 lie primarily in the MTTF and the DC , the designated D avg that respond to a fault sufficiently quickly by means of a architecture for Category 4 (Figure 6.8) is similar to that for dedicated shut-off path for a dangerous state to be avoi- Category 3. The unbroken lines for monitoring symbolize ded. Nevertheless, the majority of Category 3 systems are the higher DC , however. avg implemented in two-channel form. A corresponding desi- gnated architecture was selected for this reason (Figure Figure 6.8: 6.7). A purely “logical two-channel arrangement”, for Designated architecture for Category 4 example employing redundant software on single-channel hardware, will however not generally offer single-fault tolerance of hardware failures. II11 LL11 OO11 EiInngpauntg LLooggiikc AuOsugtapnugt 6.2.7 Category 4 Over and beyond the requirements for Category B (e.g. the application of basic safety principles), Category 4 SRP/CS II22 LL22 OO22 must apply well-tried safety principles and be designed EiInngpauntg LLooggiikc AOusugtapnugt such that: Interconnection • a single fault does not result in loss of the safety func- Monitoring tion, and Cross monitoring • the single fault is detected at or prior to the next demand of the safety function, for example immedia- tely when the machine is switched on or at the end of a 6.2.8 Blocks and channels machine operating cycle. Should such detection notbe possible, the accumulation of undetected faults must For simplified quantification of the probability of failure, not result in loss of the safety function. (In practice, presentation of the safety-related control in the form of abstracted blocks and channels is helpful. The term 53 6 Design of safe control systems “blocks” has a defined meaning of its own in this con- Figure 6.9: text. It refers to function blocks only in the sense that the General example of a safety-related block diagram; I1 and O1 safety function is executed in smaller units arranged in constitute the first channel (series arrangement), whilst I2, L series and in parallel. The following rules can be stated and O2 constitute the second (series arrangement); the safety for mapping of the hardware structure to a safety-related function is performed redundantly with both channels (parallel arrangement); T is used only for testing block diagram: • The blocks should map, in abstract form, all control II11 OO11 Series arrangement components that relate to performance of the safety SB1 Parallel arrangement function. II22 LL OO22 Series arrangement • If the safety function is performed in multiple redundant TT only for testing channels, they should be presented in separate blocks. Subsystem 2 (SB2) This reflects the fact that should one block fail, perfor- mance of the safety function by the blocks of the other channel is not impaired. In accordance with this definition, the following rules can be formulated for presentation of a safety-related control • Division of the blocks within a channel is somewhat system in the form of a safety-related block diagram: arbitrary; although EN ISO 13849-1 proposes three blocks per channel (input level I, logic level L and output • The arrangement of blocks in series in the form of a level O), this is primarilyin the interests of clarity. Nei- “channel” (e.g. blocks I,