within it as the first alternative. It provides of which wear is the dominant cause. This approximation, support in the form of typical values for mechanical, however, yields a result of adequate quality only up to hydraulic and pneumatic components and for electro- attainment of the T value (which equates in “cycles” to mechanical safety components frequently used in 10D the B value). practice. These values are listed as MTTF values or B 10D D 10D values in Table D.2. The B value, which is obtained by 10D This part of the approximationis illustrated in Figure D.3. the component manufacturer by testing, indicates the The unbroken curve represents the original Weibull distri- average number of cycles at which 10% of the compo- bution with an assumed shape factor of b = 3. In the parti- nents have failed dangerously. This value can be used to cular case where b = 1, the Weibull distribution transitions estimate the MTTF value. A number of conditions must D to an exponential distribution that is characterized by a however be met when the values in Table D.2 are used: constant failure rate over time. The dashed line now refers to the exponential distribution corresponding to the “sub- • The manufacturer of the component confirms that basic stitute failure rate”, constant over time, which is equal safety principles to EN ISO 13849-1:2012 or the relevant to the reciprocal of the MTTF value obtained by means standard (see Table D.2) were applied during design of D of the formula (D.3). The MTTF obtained by this means the component (confirmation on the data sheet for the D ensures that the exponential distribution shown by the component). dashed line intersects the original Weibull distribution at the point (t = T ; F = 10%). The point at which 10% of • The manufacturer of a component that is to be used in 10D D the components under analysis have failed dangerously a Category 1, 2, 3 or 4 control system confirms that well- is therefore reached by both distributions following elap- tried safety principles to EN ISO 13849-1:2012 or the sing of T . From Figure D.3, it can be seen that the actual relevant standard (see Table D.2) were applied during 10D fail ure rate prior to attainment of the wear phase is very the design of the component(confirmation on the data low, and remains below the approximated exponential sheet for the component). distribution up to point T . This approximation is there- 10D fore conservative (on the safe side). The importance of • The manufacturer of the component specifies the sui- limiting the mission time to T is also evident: above this table application and operating conditions for the 10D value, the proportion of dangerous failures which may SRP/CS designer and the user and informs them of actually be expected rises significantly over time when their responsibility to satisfy the basic safety principles compared to the exponential substitute function. The to EN ISO 13849-1:2012 during implementation and validity of the approximation based upon the substitute operation of the component. failure rate constant over time can be extended by preven- tive re placement of the affected component when the T • The designer of the SRP/CS and the user satisfy 10D value is reached. the basic and/or well-tried safety principles to EN ISO 13849-1:2012 for implementation and operation In the lower part of Figure D.3, it can be seen clearly that of the component. the selected “substitute failure rate” λ = 1/MTTF of the D D exponential approximation corresponds approximately Compliance with these requirements is to ensure that the to the arithmetic mean of the failure rate which may actu- application of basic and/or well-tried safety principles ally be expected up to the point in time T . Beyond T is assured from manufacture, through implementation, 10D 10D 273 Annex D to routine operation of the component. The interface This topic will therefore be discussed separately in detail between the manufacturer, the designer of the SRP/CS in subclauses D.2.5.1 to D.2.5.6 below. and the user of the machine (operating party) is clearly defined: the manufacturer must provide bindingconfir- By their nature, these approaches constitute major sim- mation that the safety principles were observed during plifications of the actual, complex relationships. A very design, and must make all relevant information available low load current in particular, combined with infrequent concerning the conditions of use and operation. The actuation, can for example lead to cold welding of elec- de signer of the SRP/CS and the user of the machine trical contacts. These effects should however be avoided (operating party) are in turn responsible for observing by the required application of basic/well-tried safety prin- all safety principles concerning implementation and ciples. These principles include the suitability of both the operation of the component. Provided these conditions mechanical and electrical component characteristics and are met, the typical values cited in Table D.2 can be their adaptation to the anticipated load. used for calculation of the MTTF , if applicable via the D B . The MTTF value of 150 years for hydraulic control D.2.5.1 Modelling of electromechanical compo- 10D D components, the reasoning for which is stated above, is nents (position switches, guard-locking extended here to include mechanical components. This devices, emergency stop devices, enab- secondary value can be used when reasoning cannot be ling switches and pushbuttons) provided for a fault exclusion but when the use of basic/well-tried safety principles is assured. In addition, It has been seen in practical application of the standard B values for electromechanical components are stated to date that considerable uncertainty exists regarding the 10D that can be converted to an MTTF value in accordance modelling of electromechanical components. This can D with the procedure also described above involving the also be seen from the fact that the language between the average number of actuations per year n . two parts of the standard differsrea- sonable risk reduction by means of technical protective Detection Processing