reliability of the individual components from which to the number of theoretically possible faults. Evaluation the control system is constructed makes a decisive con- must therefore be limited to the faults that are relevant. tribution to its overall reliability. The MTTF (mean time D Certain faults can be excluded if the following points are to dangerous failure) is thus also considered in the PL as considered: a reliability value. It is clear that “failure” in this context refers to component defects that result in the implemen- • The technical improbability of their occurrence (a proba- ted function not or no longer being performed. The other bility that is several orders of magnitude lower than that parts of the term require explanation, however: of other possible faults and the risk reduction that is to be attained) • “Mean” indicates that the value is a statistical mean: it does not refer to a specific component, but is defined • Generally accepted technical experience, irrespective of as an anticipated value for the mean lifetime of the typi- the application under consideration cal component. In this context, the anticipated value foran individual component can be considered equal to • The technical requirements relating to the application the mean value of a large number of components of the and to the specific hazard same type. The value is not therefore a guaranteed mini- mum lifetime in the sense of failure-free period. This The component faults that may occur and those that can approach employing a mean value is also reflected in be excluded are described in EN ISO 13849-2. The fol- the fact that the lifetime values are not normally adap- lowing points must be observed: ted to the conditions of use (e.g. load, temperature, climate), provided the components are employed within • The fault lists constitute a selection only. Where neces- the conditions of use specified for them. It is generally sary, new fault models must therefore be created (for assumed here that the higher load in one application example for new components), or further fault types of a device is averaged out by a lower load in another considered, depending upon the application. This can application. Should higher loads be anticipated in all be determined for example by means of an FMEA. applications (e.g. owing to extreme temperatures), how- ever, these conditions must be considered when the • Secondary faults are evaluated as a single fault together MTTF is determined. D with the initial fault giving rise to them, as are multiple faults with a common cause (CCF, common cause fail- • “Time” indicates that the reliability is expressed in ures). terms of a time in the sense of a lifetime. The MTTF is D generally indicated in years (abbreviated “a”). Other • The simultaneous incidence of two or more faults diffe- forms of notation that may be converted to an MTTF D ring in their cause is consideredextremely unlikely, and include failure rates or (switching) cycles. Failure rates need not therefore be taken into account. are generally indicated by the small Greek letter λ (lambda) and expressed in the unit “FIT” (= 10-9/h, i.e. Further information on fault exclusion can be found in failures per billion component hours). The relation- Annex C and in Part 2 of EN ISO 13849. Should faults be ship between λ and MTTF is expressed, at a constant D D excluded without the reason for exclusion being imme- fail ure rate λ over the lifetime, as MTTF = 1/λ . The D D D diately apparent (such as the peeling-off of tracks on a conversion from hours to years must of course be con- properly dimensioned circuit-board layout), precise rea- sidered. For components that wear primarily as a result soning must be stated in the technical documentation. of their mechanical operation, the reliability is usually expressed in switching cycles, for example as a B 10D Provided the relevant conditions are met, fault exclusions value, i.e. the mean number of cycles until 10% of the are also possible for components, for example for the components fail dangerously. The MTTF can be calcula- D electrical break contacts and the mechanical actuation ted in this case by consideration of the mean number of of electromechanical position switches or emergency operations per year n that are anticipated in the appli- op stop devices. The validity of fault exclusions may be cation concerned. For more details, refer to Annex D. 55 6 Design of safe control systems • “Dangerous” indicates that only failures that impair for mechanical, hydraulic and electronic components, performance of the safety function are ultimately consi- the standard also contains B values for pneumatic and 10D dered for the PL (unsafe failure). By contrast,safe failu- electromechanical components. Details are described in res may well cause the safe state to be assumed (opera- Annex D. ting inhibition) or reduce the availability or productivity of a machine, but the safety function is nevertheless A convenient source of reliability data for components executed properly, or the safe state initiated/maintai- intended for use in safety-oriented control systems are ned. In redundant structures, however, the “dangerous” the large number of available SISTEMA libraries (see attribute refers to each individual channel. Should a Annex H). These contain MTTF or B values for elements D 10D failure in one channel result in the safety function being and components, and PL and PFH values for entire sub- D rendered inoperative, the failure concerned is conside- systems. red dangerous, even where a further channel is still able to perform the safety function successfully. 6.2.13 FMEA versus the parts count method An MTTF may be stated both for an individual compo- Once the MTTF values of all safety-related components D D nent, such as a transistor, valve or contactor, and for a have been obtained, certain simple rules can be used to block, a channel, or the control system as a whole. This calculate the MTTF value of the control system from them. D overall MTTF represents the value