well-tried safety prin- • at start-up of the machine, and ciples. • prior to initiation of any hazardous situation, e.g. the A well-tried component for a safety-related application is start of a new cycle, start of other movements, as soon a component that has been either as the safety function is required, and/or periodically during operation, where the risk assessment and the • widely used in the past with successful results in similar form of operation indicate that this is necessary. applications, or These tests can be initiated automatically. Each test of the • made and verified using principles that demonstrate its safety function(s) must either: suitability and reliability for safety-related applications. • permit operation, if no faults have been detected, or Annex C provides an overview of known components employing a range of technologies that are well-tried for • should a fault have been detected, generate an output safety applications. for the initiation of appropriate control action (OTE). Newly developed components and safety principles may As a general rule, and always where PL = d, the output r be considered as equivalent to “well-tried” when they (OTE) must initiate a safe state that is maintained untilfulfil the second condition stated above. The decision to the fault has been eliminated. Up to PL = c, when initia- r accept a particular component as well-tried depends on tion of a safe state is not practicable (for example owing the application. Complex electronic components, such as to welding of the contacts of the final switching device), programmable logic controllers (PLCs), microprocessors a sufficient alternative may be for the output of the test or application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) cannot equipment (OTE) to provide only a warning. generally be considered as equivalent to “well-tried”. 51 6 Design of safe control systems For the designated architecture of Category 2 (Figure 6.6), attain in practice with external test equipment, undetec- calculation of the MTTF and DC considers only the ted first faults may result in loss of the safety function. For D avg blocks of the functional channel (i.e. I, L and O). When the these reasons, the maximum PL that can be attained with simplified method in the standard is used, the MTTF of Category 2 is limited to PL d. D the blocks of the test channel (i.e. TE and OTE) is consi- dered indirectly, since this method requires the MTTF of Interpretation of the requirements for a Category 2 pre- D the test channel to be at least half the MTTF of the func- sents certain difficulties that can sometimes only be deci- D tional channel. Values from “low” to “high” are permitted ded on a case-by-case basis. The following recommenda- for the MTTF of the functional channel. The DC must be tions can be made in this respect: D avg at least “low”. Adequate measures against CCF must also be applied (see subclause 6.2.15 and Annex F). • The standard requires testing of the safety function. Should thisnot be possible for all components, Cate- Figure 6.6: gory 2 cannot be applied (Note 1 in EN ISO 13849-1:2015, Designated architecture for Category 2; dashed lines indicate subclause 6.2.5). It thus follows that all components of reasonably practicable fault detection the functional channel must be tested. The functional channel encompasses all components that can cause failure of the safety function by at least one failure II LL OO mode. The standard specifies at least a low DC for the avg EIinngpauntg LLooggiick AOuustgpauntg functional channel. • “Testing of the safety function” cannot always be per- formed by testing of the functional channel from input OOTTEE TTEE to output. Ideally, it should be performed actively by AuOsugatpnugt d oefr TTeesstt eeiqnuriicphmtuenngt tTeesstt eeiqnuriicphmtuenngt the test equipment itself, or the test equipment should use components of its own to monitor execution of the Interconnection safety function passively. In the passive solution, an Monitoring (reasonably adequate test rate must be ensured by the application. practicable fault detection) Alternatively, the blocks (I, L, O) or components in the functional channel can be monitored individually; dia- The test must not itself give rise to a hazardous situation gnostics should always be as close as possible to the (e.g. owing to lengthening of the response time). The “actual execution of the safety function”. test equipment may be integral with or separate from the functional channel (see below for further information). • The statement that the test equipment may be integral Category 2 cannot be applied in some cases, since testing with or separate from the functional channel means of the safety functions is not possible on all components. that whilst it is permissible for elements of the test Since the safety function can fail unnoticed between equipment performing the test to be located within thetests, the interval between tests is a critical parameter. In functional channel, for example in an SRP/CS consisting addition, the test equipment could itself fail undetected of electronics, the part of the test equipment evaluating before the functional channel fails. Simplified quantifica- the diagnostic results must however normally be engi- tion of the PL by means of the designated architecture and neered external to the functional channel, for example the bar chart (Figure 6.10, Page 61) is therefore subject to in the form of a separate watchdog. Only in this way can the following requirements: the requirements concerning mutual independence of the functional and test channels be satisfied. The dia- • The MTTF value of the test channel is not lower than gnostic information for the test equipment should pro- D half the MTTF value of the functional channel, and vide adequate information on the safety-related service- D ability of the monitored parts of the functional channel. • The test rate is at least 100 times the mean demand It must therefore exhibit a certain minimum complexity rate upon the safety function (as an exception, at least in order to enable the test equipment to reach a sound 25 times as high; see subclause 6.2.14) or