phenomenon is present during the test. In the time T and thus possibly also upon replacement inter- worst case, the non-suppressed interference results in the 10D vals to be specifiedfor the component. output signal with superimposed disturbance not being interpreted by the downstream circuit as a demand of the The next step in the method entails consideration for safety function, despite phototransistor K1 not being illu- diagnostics. Only diagnostics relating to dangerous-mode minated (= dangerous failure of the “light barrier” func- failures (of the function block) are considered. Conside- tion block). Should the fault not be present at the time ration for whether a test or where applicable several tests of the test, Test 1 is not able to detect the capacitor open are capable of detecting some or all of these failures need circuit. Since no reliable information on the failure-type therefore be given only for components that exhibit a distribution is available for the capacitor, it is assumed portion of dangerous-mode failures. The relevant effective that – when the non-critical drift failures are disregarded test, and the diagnostic coverage DC for the components – short circuits and open circuits each account for 50% of indicating the detectable portion of dangerous-mode the failures. Both failure types lead to a dangerous failure failures, are entered in appropriate columns. Where the of the function block; only short-circuiting of the capa- components concerned are discrete components as in the citor, i.e. (an estimated) half of all dangerous capacitor example shown in Figure B.2, one of the two DC values failures, are however reliably detectable. The component- “0” for “undetectable” or “1” for “detectable” can often related diagnostic coverage is thus estimated at 50% or be assigned to the dangerous failure of a single compo- 0.5. The printed circuit board and its solder joints can nent. In the case of complex integrated components and introduce short circuits and open circuits into the circuit of discrete components the failure of which is capableof at various points. The pragmatic approach, implemented impairing the function of such a complex component, the in Figure B.3, for estimation of the DC value for the sol- component-related DC must be estimated in considera- der joints and printed circuit board consists in assigning tion both of the dangerous failure mode and of the availa- the average DC value to them that is produced for all ble test method. Support in this assessment is provided other components of the function block from the formula by Table E.2, in which DC values of 0% (“none”), 60% DC = Σ λ /Σ λ . The inclusion of the printed circuit board DD D (“low”), 90% (“medium”) and 99% (“high”) are assigned and solder joints thus has no influence upon the DC value for standard test methods. During assignment of a DC to a calculated for the complete function block. component, it must also be considered that an evaluation result of “detectable” is permissible only if the system is In each row of the table, i.e. for each component: actually capable of performing the intended safety-orien- ted operation. Detection of a failure within a circuit, for λ = temperature factor · base failure rate (if applicable example, is useless if it is rendered ineffective owing to a with further correction factors, see above) shut-off path that has already failed. λ = proportion of safe failures ⋅ λ S In the example shown, the components R1, R6 to R9 and P1 do not need to be considered with regard to the aspect λ = proportion of dangerous failures ⋅ λ D of diagnostics, since they are not capable of causing dan- gerous-mode failure of the “light barrier” function block. λ = DC ⋅ λ DD D The dangerous-mode failure portion of each ofthese 257 Annex B λ = (1 – DC) ⋅ λ circuit can be transferred to other technologies. It can DU D therefore be applied formally in the same manner for These λ values are summed by column in the table. The example to mechanical, hydraulic and pneumatic sys- sum λ and the sums λ and λ yield the MTTF , i.e. the tems. D D DD D mean time to a dangerous failure of the function block, and the DC of the function block respectively: References MTTF = 1/λ [1] Goble, W. M.: Control Systems Safety Evaluation and D D Reliability. 3rd ed. Published by: The International DC = λ /λ Society of Automation (ISA), Research Triangle Park, DD D North Carolina 2010 The only input values required for determining the PL for one of the designated architectures in accordance [2] IEC 60812: Analysis techniques for system reliability with subclauses 6.2.3 to 6.2.7 are the MTTF and DC. The – Procedure for failure mode and effects analysis D example shown yields an MTTF value of 9,905.9 years (FMEA) (01.06.). IEC 60812: 2006: Analysis tech- D and a DC of 91.72%. If a different quantification method is niques for system reliability – Proce dure for failure employed, values from the FMEA table such as λ and λ mode and effects analysis (FMEA) DD DU may also be used. [3] SN 29500: Ausfallraten Bauelemente, Erwartungs- B.3 Parts count method werte. Published by: Siemens AG, Corporate Tech- nology, Technology & Innovation Management, Time and effort can be saved by use of a simpler method Munich, Germany 2004-2014 instead of an FMEA. If a detailed analysis of the circuit (Order from: michaela.pabst@siemens.com or tho- behaviour is not performed for the various failure types mas.haizmann@siemens.com) of the individual elements, the parts count method isan alternative (cf. Annex D of this report). This method was [4] IEC/TR 62380: Reliability data handbook – Universal originally found in the MIL Handbook 217F (superseded model for reliability prediction of electronics com- by [6]), and a variant of it is described in EN ISO 13849, ponents, PCBs and equipment. Published by: Inter- Part 1, Annex D.1. If at the same time relatively conser- national Electrotechnical Commission (IEC), Geneva, vative (high) failure rates