report. (see also [13]). Numerically, corresponding classes (see Figure 3.2) exist which permit rapid preliminary estima- The apparent overlap in regulatory scope of the two tions for practical day-to-day use. spheres of standardization initially appears unfavoura- ble to manufacturers of control systems and other users In the sense of the standard, the designated architectures of standards. Both EN ISO 13849-1 and IEC 62061 are are more an optional facility (simplified approach) than a harmonized standards under the Machinery Directive. requirement. They should however be regarded as a key Parts 1 to 4 of IEC 61508 have the status of basic safety element in simplification of the probabilistic approach standards from the IEC perspective (with the exception of implemented in EN ISO 13849, and their application is simple systems); this series of standards cannot however one of the tenets of this report. The scope of IEC 62061 be harmonized under the Machinery Directive, even as a indicates that it also covers complex, e.g. programmable European standard. This situation prompts for example electronics. Although this is correct, the development of the following questions: “SRECSs” (see Figure 3.1) employing this technology must nonetheless satisfy the requirements of the standard in • What standard(s)certain comments of a gene- the release (break operation) of a button already pressed. ral nature are made in the following technology-specific subclauses in order to provide a better understanding of Where relevant to the example concerned, particular refe- the examples and for implementation of the Categories. rence is made under “Remarks” to aspects specific to a Some of the circuit examples represent “control systems possible application. involving multiple technologies”. These “mixed” circuit examples are based upon the concept, enshrined in the Under “Calculation of the probability of failure”, a descrip- standard, that a safety function is always implemented by tion is provided of calculation of the PL from the para- “reception”, “processing” and “switching”, irrespective of meters Category, MTTF , DC and CCF, based upon the the technology employed. D avg safety-related block diagram derived from the conceptual schematic diagram. The Category is determined from the 8.1 General technology-related remarks on functional description and the design features. the example control systems The MTTF values employed in the calculations are marked 8.1.1 Electromechanical controls D as manufacturer‘s values (“[M]” for manufacturer), typical values from databases (“[D]” for database), or values from Electromechanical controls primarily employ electrome- EN ISO 13849-1 (“[S]” for standard). In accordance with chanical components in the form of control devices (e.g. the standard, priority should be given to manufacturers‘ position switches, selector switches, pushbuttons) and data. For certain components, neither reliable manufactu- switchgear (contactor relays, relays, contactors). These rers‘ data nor database values were available at the time devices have defined switching positions. They do not of production of the report. In this case, use was made of generally change their switching state unless actuated the parts count method for estimation of typical example externally or electrically. When selected properly and values (marked “[E]” for estimated). TheMTTF values in used as intended, they are largely immune to disturbance, D this chapter should therefore be regarded in some cases such as electrical or electromagnetic interference. In this more as estimates. respect they differ, in some cases considerably, from electronic equipment. Their durability and failure mode The presentation of the assumed measures for diag- can be influenced by suitable selection, dimensioning nostics (DC) and against common cause failure (CCF) is and arrangement. The same applies to the conductors limited to general information. Specific values for these employed, when suitably routed within and outside the two criteria are dependent upon the implementation, the electrical compartments. application and the manufacturer. It is therefore possible for different DC values to be assumed for similar compo- For the reasons stated above, the electromechanical com- nents in different examples. Here too, all assumptions ponents generally satisfy the “basic safety principles”, regarding DC and CCF must be reviewed in real-case and in many cases are also to be regarded as “well-tried implementations; the assumed values are not binding components” for safety applications. This holds true, and are intended solely for the purpose of illustration. however, only when the requirements of IEC 60204-1 [25] for the electrical equipment of the machine/installation The focus in the presentation lies more upon the Cate- are observed. In some cases, fault exclusions are possi- gories in the form of the “resistance to faults”, the block ble, for example on a control contactor with regard to pick- diagram and the “mathematical” methods for deter- up in the absence of a control voltage, or non-opening of mining the PL. Conversely, some sub-steps, such as a break contact with direct opening action on a switch to fault exclusion, basic and well-tried safety principles or IEC 60947-5-1 [56], Annex K. meas ures againstsystematic faults (including software) are mentioned only briefly. During implementation, 100 8 Circuit examples for SRP/CS Detailed information on the modelling of electromechani- ting temperature range and thus the operating viscosity cal components can be found in Annex D. range of the hydraulic fluid. If necessary, heating and/or cooling equipment must be provided in conjunction with 8.1.2 Fluid power controls closed-loop temperature control (refer also to Annex C in this context). On fluid power installations, the area of valves, i.e. valves controlling hazardous movements or states, should in The drive elements and the components for energy con- particular be considered a “safety-related part of the versions and transmission in fluid power systems gene- control system”. The fluid power circuits listed below rally lie outside the scope of the standard. constitute example arrangements only. As a rule, the required safety functions can also be implemented by On pneumatic systems (see Figure 8.2, Page 102), the means of alternative control logic employing appropriate components for the prevention of hazards associated valve types, or for that matter in some cases by additional with energy conversion and the maintenance unit for mechanical solutions such as hold devices or brakes. compressed air conditioning must be considered from a