Activation system Electronic HMI key d Reader SPLC e Figure I.2: a Example of operating mode selection b with use of an electronic key system as PLC the access system; HMI: human-machine interface; PLC: programmable logic c controller (standard); SPLC: safety PLC; a to e: information flow (see functional description) 307 Annex I The safety PLC forms the activation system. It is res- 5. The safety functions required for the operating ponsible for changing the operating mode and thus for mode are activated. activating the safety functions required for the operating mode. The safety PLC also ensures that one operating I4.4 Safety analysis mode and the associated safety functions are active at any given time. The reader in this example satisfies the structural require- ments forCategory 3. This means that a single fault can- I.4.3 Functional description not lead simultaneously to an incorrect output on the data interface and the relay output. Single faults are detected Key system/standard PLC by high-quality coding of the authorization level, cross monitoring in the reader, and anticipation in the safety Insertion of a key into the reader causes the authorization PLC. The reader combined with the electronic key serving level to be read out. The authorization level defines, as as an access system thereby attains a level of safety com- a function of the technical qualifications of the operator, parable to that of the key of electromechanical selection which operating modes the operator is to be entitled equipment. to select. The reader is connected to the standard PLC through a data interface. Once the key data have been The process described for selection, checking and confir- read out, the authorization level is transmitted to the HMI mation of the operating mode and programming of this (a) and the safety PLC (b). process satisfy the requirements for software-based para- meterization in accordance with subclause 4.6.4 of the In addition to the data interface, the reader features a standard. relay output that is switched off as long as no key is inser- ted or the key data cannot be read out. The relay output is The SRASW software of the safety PLC is programmed connected to a safe input on the safety PLC (c). in accordance with the requirements for PL e and the guidance in subclause 6.3. HMI The safety PLC is a safety component for use in PL e. The operating modes to which the key provides entitle- ment by virtue of the authorization level are displayed on The average probability of a dangerous failure of the ope- theHMI. Following selection of an operating mode, it is rating mode selection safety function is derived from the transmitted via the standard PLC to the safety PLC (d). The PFH for the activation system, which in the example is D safety PLC sends a feedback message regarding the saved the safety PLC. operating mode over the same path back to the HMI, where it must be acknowledged by the operator. More detailed references Safety PLC [1] Directive 2006/42/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2006 on machinery, As soon as a signal change takes place on the safe input and amending Directive 95/16/EC (recast) OJ EU of the safety PLC following insertion of the key, a process (2006) L 157, pp. 24-86 is launched in the safety PLC at the end of which the selected operating mode is activated. The process com- [2] Werner, C.; Zilligen, H.; Köhler, B.; Apfeld, R.: Safe prises the following discrete steps: drive controls with frequency converters. IFA Report 4/2018e. 3rd ed. Published by: Deutsche Gesetzliche 1. The authorization level stored on the key is checked Unfallversicherung e. V. (DGUV), Berlin, Germany for its validity. 2019 (will be published in Summer 2019). www.dguv.de/ifa, Webcode: e635980 2. The operating mode selected on the HMI is then checked for whether it constitutes a valid operating [3] IEC 60947-4-1: Low-voltage switchgear and control- mode and the operator is authorized to select it based gear – Part 5-1: Control circuit devices and switching upon the authorization level. elements – Electromechanical control circuit devices (2009) + A1 (2012) 3. The operating mode is signalled back to the HMI for acknowledgement (e). [4] EN ISO 13849-2: Safety of machinery – Safety-related parts of control systems – Part 2: Validation (2012) 4. Following acknowledgement of the operatingmode, it is checked for its consistency with the operating mode actually selected. 308 Annex I [5] DGUV-Information: Sicherheitsbezogene Betriebs- arten an spanenden Werkzeugmaschinen der Metallbearbeitung (FB HM-073). Date of publication: 2/2016. Published by: Fachbereich Holz und Metall der Deutschen Gesetzlichen Unfallversicherung e. V. (DGUV), Mainz, Germany 2016. www.dguv.de/ifa, Webcode: d545286 309 310 Annex J: Overlapping hazards Changes with respect to the second edition (BGIA Report 2/2008e): The content below is taken from DGUV expert committee information sheet No 47. Following publication of the third edition of the standard, this information sheet was withdrawn, as its regulatory content was adopted in the standard. It has been included here for the purpose of illustrating the handling of overlapping hazards. 331111 312 Annex J Safety functions to EN ISO 13849-­‐1 where multiple overlapping hazards are present On complex manufacturing systems and machine tools, overlapping hazards may arise in working C ontents areas as a result of hazardous movements caused for example by multiple feed axis drives 1 Current situation with closed-­‐loop control. This information sheet describes a procedure, agreed with OSH experts 2 Handling of overlapping hazards in and the Institute for Occupational Safety and Health of the German Social Accident Insurance practice (IFA), by which safety functions with overlapping hazards can be modelled and analysed by application of EN ISO 13849-­‐1 [1] or IEC 62061 [2]. 1 Current situation The analysis of discrete hazards is proven good Prism magazine Q5 practice in safety technology. Probabilistic analysis (behind end panel) in accordance with EN ISO 13849-­‐1 or IEC 61508 [3, 4] and IEC 62061 and the risk assessment for a hazard situation show however that consideration must also be