Switching measures is not possible; in the majority of cases, safegu- ards will however be required. In this context, safety func- From risk analysis (EN ISO 12100) 1 Identification of safety functions (SFs) 2 Specification of characteristics of each SF For each 3 Determination of required PL (PL) r SF Figure 5.5: To implementation Return and determining of the PL if further Excerpt from the iterative process for (Figure 6.1) SFs exist the design of the dafety-related parts of (Figure 7.1) control systems (SRP/CS) 28 5 Safety functions and their contribution to risk reduction 5.3.1 Definition of safety functions f) Prevention of entrapment of persons The necessary safety functions are defined in considera- g) Stopping of the closing movement controlled by two- tion of both the application and the hazard. For example, hand operation in the event of intervention in the dan- if flying debris must be anticipated, a light curtain will ger zone by a second person (initiated by means of a be an unsuitable solution, and an arrester (guard) will light curtain) be required. A safety function is therefore a function by which measures (including measures in the control tech- Compound safety functions are frequently employed, as nology) reduce the risk presented by a particular hazard to in the example in subclause 5.7. The movement is initi- an acceptable level. In the absence of relevant provi sions ally braked to a halt by the electronic drive, after which in a Type C standard, the safety functions are de fined by a mechanical holding brake is applied. The two tables the designer of the machine, e.g.: below provide information on possible safety functions. Table 5.1 summarizes the safety functions according to a) Controlled stopping of the movement andto some extent in this op context: whereas the first part selects an approach invol- All values in the table relate to dangerous failures only, ving B within the good engineering practice method 10D as expressed by the “D” suffix. It has generally been (see Table D.2), the second part addresses possible fault assumed here that only half of all failures are dangerous. exclusions. This is exacerbated by the fact that for many The third edition of the standard however deviated from of these components, a clear distinction cannot be made this rule for “contactors with nominal load”, and the pro- between their mechanical and electrical parts. Conse- portion of dangerous failures (75% break faults or short- quently, the requirements and information in both parts circuits) stated in Table K.2 of the IEC 60947-4-1 product of the standard will first be presented below in general standard [5] was used for conversion. This leads to a terms; a pragmatic modelling approach will then be pro- reduced B value compared to that in the second edition posed for the various electromechanical components that 10D of the standard, namely 1,300,000 rather than 2,000,000 draws primarily upon Part 1 of the standard. Part 2 can cycles. Consequently, the values stated here may well also be applied as an alternative; implementation often appear more optimistic than those indicated on manu- fails in practice however owing to the fact that complete facturers' data sheets, which relate to all fault types that fault exclusion for the mechanical and electrical part could impair functionality in the sense of availability. On requires confirmation by the manufacturer – for example some electromechanical components, for example relays, in the data sheet – or precise knowledge of the conditions contactor relays and contactors, the electrical load of the of use. In practice,the two conditions are often not met. contacts is a major factor determining the B value, as 10D is frequently confirmed by observations in the field. At What is stated in the standard? – Electro mechanical low electrical load (typically resistive load), described by components in accordance with Part 1 of the standard EN ISO 13849-1 as up to 20% of the rated value, substan- tially better values are obtained. The mechanical rather With the good engineering practice method introduced than the electrical durability was assumed decisive in above, EN ISO 13849-1:2015 proposes that subject to this case (see subclause D.2.4). Depending upon the type satisfaction of the conditions set out below, the typi- (resistive or inductive) and magnitude of the load, B cal B values [S] for position switches, guard-locking 10D 10D values lying between the extremes stated here may be devices, emergency stop devices, enabling switches and derived. For the position switches, guard-locking devices, pushbuttons stated in Table D.2 may be assumed: emergency stop devices and pushbuttons, such as ena- bling switches, listed in the table, the safety principle of • Use of basic and well-tried safety principles in design, direct opening action is generally a requirement for the application and operation of the component (see Tables electrical part. Between the second and third editions of D.1 and D.2 to EN ISO 13849-2), and the standard, certain changes took place for these com- ponents in the good engineering practice method as a result of experience gained with application in the field. 274 Annex D • The possibility of fault exclusion for direct opening and application aspects. These are special cases in which action (contacts to IEC 60947-5-1, Annex K, characte- the machine manufacturer excludes certain faults on a rized in the conceptual circuit diagrams by →) case-by-case basisfor specific applications in consulta- tion with the component manufacturer. Manufacturer's data [M] should of course always be given preference over typical values stated in the standard. What is stated in the standard? – Electro mechanical Regarding modelling, the standard states that the compo- components in accordance with Part 2 of the standard nents “can be estimated as a Category 1 or Category 3/4 subsystem depending on the number of electrical output Table D.8 of EN ISO 13849-2 applies to switches, such contacts and on the fault detection in the subsequent as electromechanical position switches and manually SRP/CS. Each contact element (including the mechanical operated switches, and can therefore be applied to all actuation)