Figure G.3. This state is function, thus constitute a form of substitute channel attained if and only if a demand is made upon the safety for the fault case. Unlike a “true” second channel, this function from within dangerous previous states (shown substitute channel becomes active only when faults are in grey). Like the “Operating inhibition” state, this state detected in the main channel. is also transitioned to the OK state by repair. Further tran- sition arrows, for example from “OK” to “System DU”, are The state graph in Figure G.3 can be derived from the the result of simultaneous, common cause failure (CCF) of safety-related block diagram in Figure G.2. To this end, all multiple function blocks. It is assumed in 2% of the dan- 25 = 32 failure combinations of the five function blocks gerous failures of either of the function blocks L and TE, are first formed. The state without failure is the OK state the other of the two blocks fails dangerously for the same shown above. It is followed by a series of states in which reason. The same is assumed for the function blocks O only one function block has failed, then by a series in and OTE. which two blocks have failed, and so on. The denotation of the states consists of the names of each failed function All arrows are assigned to transition rates the dimension block followed by “D”, indicating that the block concerned of which is determined by the transition processes con- has failed dangerously (i.e. unfavourably in safety terms). cerned (failures, tests, demands, repairs). Consideration Failures of function blocks cause consequential states to of common cause failures (CCFs) at different points also be reached, indicated here by arrows. States in which the results in a change in the original transition rate. For the system is no longer capable of performing the safety func- purpose of calculation of the bar chart, the worse case is tion are shown in grey. In cases where the failure can be assumed in which the testequipment employed in the detected and a safe response is therefore possible, a tran- system is itself not tested. For this reason, a rate of zero is sition exists to the “Operating inhibition” state shown on assigned to some transitions in Figure G.3. OK I D TE D L D O D OTE D I D I D I D I D TE D L D TE D L D O D OTE D OTE D O D I D I D Figure G.3: TE D L D OTE D O D State graph of the Markov model for the Category 2 designated archi- tecture for determi- ning of the PFH D 298 noitibihni noitarepO UD metsyS Hazardous situation/harm Systems that do test their test equipment are therefore state residence periods that are distributed exponentially, estimated erring on the safe side. For the purpose of sim- even though this holds true, strictly speaking, only for the plified calculation by means of the Markov method, it is constant-rate random failures. Separate considerations assumed that all transition processes are characterized by justify this simplification. Annex G It is assumed that at the beginning of the mission time, Annex K of the standard contains the content of Figure G.1 the probability of the system being in the OK state is 1 in numerical form in Table K.1. Table K.1 can be used to and the probability of all other possible system states is determine the Performance Level more precisely than 0. During the assumed mission time of 20 years, all state is possible by means of the figure; this is particularly probabilities gradually change: beginning at the OK state, useful when the PFH contributions of several cascaded D they are redistributed along the transition arrows. The subsystems require summation. Conversely, the bar chartsum of the state probabilities remains constant at 1. This pro vides, above all, a swift overview of the suitability of also results in a migration over time to the “Hazardous various technical solutions for the PL, and can therefore situation/Harm” state, of which the average value with be used to make a preliminary selection. The information respect to time over the 20-year mission time is represen- in Table K.1 of the standard is also contained in the “Per- ted by the PFH , i.e. the average probability of a dange- formance Level Calculator” (PLC), a convenient card disc D rous failure of the system per hour. available from the IFA that can be used to determine the PL [5]. This PFH value is shown on the vertical axis of the D bar chart for the different “designated architectures” Occasionally, the DC value determined for a system avg in accordance with subclause 6.2 of the standard (cf. may lie only marginally below one of the thresholds “low” subclauses 6.2.3 to 6.2.7 of this report); Categories 2 (60%), “medium” (90%) or “high” (99%). If the simplified and 3 are subdivided further according to the average quantification method in EN ISO 13849-1 is then applied, diagnostic coverage (DC ). The columns are created by purely formal constraints require that the next-lower DC avg avg variation of the MTTF , i.e. the mean time to dangerous level, i.e. “none”, “low” or “medium”, be used. This pro- D failure of the (or a) functional channel, for a combination cedure constitutes an estimation of the system erring on of the architecture (or the associated Markov model) and the safe side. Owing to the small number of graduations the DC . The Markov model in Figure G.3 can for example on the DC scale, however, aminor change to the system avg avg be used to calculate the two columns for the designated that has the effect of causing the DC value to dip just avg Category 2 architecture. (For mathematical reasons, an below one of the thresholds may result in a substantially equivalent substitute model differing from this model was poorer assessment of the system. This