DC and CCF for the D D avg regard to common cause failures (CCF), in conjunction Performance Level PL of each SRP/CS (quantification with the possible causes of CCF and the relevant counter- documentation), including the list of measures against measures stated in Annex F. common cause failures 7.1.4 Documents for V&V activities • Complete software documentation (refer also to sub- clause 6.3) As can be inferred from Figure 7.1, detailed documentation is required for the execution of each V&V activity. This • Design rules followed for design and implementation, concerns technical documentation of relevance through- such as design rules for analog and digital circuits, pro- out the V&V process (particularly the specifications), or gramming guidelines, etc. documentation that has been produced in the course of designand creation of the SRP/CS and that may be • Substantiating documentation (certificates, test required only for single or selected analyses/tests. The reports, technical records) of components, units or following content (summary) should be given adequate SRP/CS that have already been validated. Also: sub- consideration: stantiating documentation of attained reliability values where these were attained by means other than in • Complete specification of the requirements upon the accordance with EN ISO 13849. Data and where appli- safety functions and of the requirements upon the cable substantiating documentation concerning well- design of the SRP/CS. The description of the require- tried components ments shall include all performance characteristics, properties, operating modes and anticipated states and The documents shall be complete, their content free of processes from which evaluation criteria can be derived contradictions, logically structured, easily comprehen- sible and verifiable. • Operating and environmental conditions with rating data, derived from the intended applications or from 7.1.5 Analysis the applicable standards; rating data for components An SRP/CS or sub-aspects of it are evaluated largely by • Functional description of the execution of all safety analysis. This entails both the use of analysis methods functions with description of states and processes: that can be performed manually, such as inspections, The handling of failures/faults in the SRP/CS, i.e. the reviews or walk-throughs for the specification of technical responses to and states of the SRP/CS in the possible documentation and of the accompanying information; modes of failure/fault, shall be included, as shall the and the use of analysis tools (often PC-based), such as operating concept including all user interactions circuit simulators, tools for static and dynamic hardware/ software analysis, or FMEA/FMEDA tools and fault simu- • Design description of the SRP/CS (with specifics of the lators for the analysis of components and circuits in faultmechanical, electrical, electronic, hydraulic and pneu- mode. Verification concerning operating and environmen- matic components employed) by means of suitable tal conditions pushes the scope of analysis to its limits. drawings/sketches, diagrams, plans, data and explana- New methods and processes in product development tory text: This includes, for example, general drawings, (such as model-based or virtual development methods) structure and block diagrams, process/state transition will doubtless lead to the appearance of new analysis diagrams, wiring plans, descriptions of connections methods and analysis tools. The necessary decision regar- and interfaces, conceptual schematic diagrams, circuit ding where analytical methods shall be accompanied by diagrams, electrical plans, fluid power circuit plans, tests is documented in simple form in the V&V plan. assembly plans, tables of technical data/rating data for components, if applicable data sheets 7.1.6 Tests • Fault analysis/failure mode and effects analysis (FMEA) Wherever analyses are not possible for the sub-aspect or failure mode, effects and diagnostics analysis under consideration or evaluation by analysis alone is not (FMEDA), in consideration of the applied fault lists; for adequate, tests shall be performed in order to demon- Category 4, including accumulation of faults strate that the requirements are met. Testing shall be planned systematically and executed logically, generally • Description of the technical measures taken for the con- with reference to development stages that can be imple- trol of faults (fault diagnostics measures) mented in practice, such asprototypes, functional models or software/code. The tests shall be performed on a confi- • Basic and well-tried safety principles observed during guration resembling the intended operating configuration the design process, and documented determining of the as closely as possible. The environmental conditions 89 7 Verification and validation under which the tests are to be performed shall be defi- shall be continued with respect to the as-yet unresolved nedin advance. The tests may be performed either manu- safety functions. ally or automatically. Returning to the design and implementation process also Where testing is employed for verification, the meas- means identifying the elements of the V&V process that urement uncertainty shall be reasonable. EN ISO 13849-2 were not passed and assigning them to V&V activities to provides information on the limits that are to be obser- which they must once again be subjected. For this pur- ved. pose, the V&V plan (see subclause 7.1.2) may contain sui- table elements, and entries be made in it. Subclauses 7.3 to 7.7 describe the typical V&V activities of the individual aspects: safety functions, PL, Category, The scenario of negative results shall therefore be MTTF , DC and CCF, software, user information and user addressed in the processes of SRP/CS design and deve- D interface; subclause 7.8 then describes them with refe- lopment. Accordingly, processes and measures for the rence to the example of a paper-cutting guillotine. management of defective software are required (for docu- ments, records, data, configurations, software, samples/ 7.1.7 Documentation of results prototypes, etc.). All analysis and test activities shall be documented 7.2 Verification of the specification and the together with their results. During documentation of the technical documentation results, it is important that the technical specifications and assessment standards referred to are dated or refe- By a wide margin, the document most frequently named renced by versioning; that the item under analysis/under (not only in this report) with respect to implementation test (document, software, test specimen, etc.) is uniquely of an SRP/CS is the specification. This refers to the spe- identified; that selected configurations are