testing even entails a requirement for a second shut-off element. takes effect. Should, in single-channel tested systems, This is required in order to initiate and maintain the the test be executed simultaneously with the demand safe state when the test has detected failure of the nor- of the safety function and so quickly that the safe state mal shut-off element (block “O” on the safety-related is attained before a hazard arises, no conditions are block diagram). Only where the risk is low (up to PL = c) im posed upon the frequency of testing. (This applies r and when initiation of a safe state is not possible (for – with reference to the recommendations stated below example owing to welding of the contacts of the final for the test rate in two-channel systems – provided at switching device) may it be sufficient in Category 2 for least one demand per year can be assumed.) A special the output of the test equipment (OTE) only to provide example of this is continuous testing (e.g. analogue a warning. overvoltage/undervoltage monitoring), for which the requirements for the test rate are always met when the • The initiation of a test,its performance, and the neces- safe state is attained sufficiently swiftly. sary shut-off process should ideally be performed automatically by SRP/CS. Only in exceptional cases is In two-channel Category 3 and 4 systems, the test rate it acceptable to rely here upon manual intervention, for is in competition with the frequency of incidence of example by the machine operator, since experience in a second dangerous failure, since only if the second practice shows that the necessary measures are often channel fails before a test has detected the failure of not adequately implemented, whether out of idleness, the first channel does a danger exist of the safety func- or owing to pressure of work or poor information or tion not being executed. As per the definition, Category organization. Effective implementation of manual tests 4 systems even tolerate the accumulation of undetected involves greater involvement in the work process, or faults. In practice, a range of recommendations exist for greater organizational effort and discipline. Calculation the minimum necessary test rate in Categories 3 and 4. of the DC nonetheless takes account of fault detection when a demand is made upon the safety function, i.e. IEC 61800-5-2 [20] governing the safety of electrical consideration is not limited to tests initiated automati- power drive systems considers the following minimum cally by programmable electronics; electromechanical diagnostic test frequencies acceptable for the case in components such as relays or contactors constitute which testing cannot be performed without interruption classic cases in which the fault of a “failure to drop of the machine's working cycle and in which no reaso- out” can typically be detected only when a demand is nable technical solution can be implemented: one test made upon the safety function. Where faults are to be per year for PL d with Category 3, onetest every three detected in the event of a demand, the frequency must 58 6 Design of safe control systems months for PL e with Category 3, and one test per day for of the PL by means of the bar chart – that was set out PL e in Category 4. during calculation of the “Category 2 bars”: in this case, the dangerous failure rate of the test channel should In EN ISO 14119 [35] and a “Recommendation for Use” be no more than twice the dangerous failure rate of the by the notified test bodies in the machinery sector [36], functional channel that it monitors. an automatic or manual test is required at the following intervals for electromechanical outputs (relays or con- • The effectiveness of a given test measure, for example tactors): at least once per month for PL e with Category fault detection by the process, may depend heavily 3 or 4 and at least once every twelve months for PL d upon the application, and can vary anywhere between with Category 3. The test should preferably be perfor- 0 and 99%. Particular care must be taken here during med automatically; alternatively, the test interval may selection of one of the DC key values. Further explana- be monitored automatically. Only in exceptional cases tions can be found in Annex E. should it be assured by organizational measures. • Position switches connected in series, where present, At the test rates stated here, these are minimum must be considered during determining of the DC avg re quirements that apply when more frequent tests are value for electromechanical contacts. Masking of faults not possible, for example because the test can be per- may occur in such cases, requiring reduction of the formed only when a demand is made uponthe safety DC value and the attainable PL. Details can be found avg function (for which a signal change is required, as for in Annex E. example with electromechanical or fluid power techno- logy), or because an interruption in the machine's work • A situation is possible in which components or blocks cycle is required, as for example when the machine is are monitored by several tests, or in which different started at the beginning of the shift. Automatic tests tests act upon different components, with the result that are not subject to these constraints, such as pro- that an overall DC must be determined for the compo- cessor or memory tests in electronic systems, can often nent or the block. Annex E provides assistance in these be implemented at substantially higher frequency with- issues. out major overhead. In these cases, testing at least once per shift for Category 3 has proved suitable in • The DC formula (4) provides a means of calculation avg practice; in Category 4, a minimum test rate of once per in which blocks with different DC values are grouped hour was already selected when EN 954-1, the predeces- in such a way that the minimum DC requirements for avg sor