Annex C) Documents (Section 7.1.4) Analysis (Section 7.1.5) Criteria for fault exclusion (Annex C) Is no analysis sufficient? yes Testing (Section 7.1.6) Safety functions (Section 7.3) Performance Level (PL) (Section 7.4) - Category Is testing no - MTTF passed? D - DC - CCF - Systematic failure yes - Software Combination/Integration Validation report (Section 7.6) (Section 7.1.7) End Verification and validation are performed methodically by content in detail. All V&V activities accompanying the analysis and testing. development/design process are set out in binding form in a verification and validation plan (V&V plan). The plan 7.1.2 Verification and validation plan should contain the following information: A verification and validation plan has the purpose of • Identification of the SRP/CS under analysis, if appropri- describing execution of the V&V process for the specified ate their components, and possible variants/variations safety functions, the safety integrity, and all operating and environmental influences that are to be taken into • Identification of the safety functions with their assign- account. The “validation process” in accordance with ment to the SRP/CS involved EN ISO 13849-2, which of course also includes the verifi- cation activities, assumes the generation of a verification • Reference list of all documents referred to (including and validation plan, but specifies neither its form nor its the standards and technical rules to be applied) with 87 7 Verification and validation descriptions of the requirements,specifications , and or inspected by a person competent in issues of quality obligations in the area of application for the SRP/CS management (QM) and quality assurance (QA). under analysis, together with internal company design rules, such as company hardware design rules and pro- Where larger or more complex overall SRP/CS are being gramming rules/guidance documents designed, an option is for the V&V plan to set out which validation activities are to be performed only once the • Reference list of the test standards to be applied (i.e. systems concerned have been installed within a machine, standards governing test methods and performance or whether alternatively automatic test machinery or sub- of testing, not product requirements: for example, the stitute simulators can be used (for example by means of IEC 60068 series governing environmental influences) “hardware in the loop” simulation). • The analyses and tests to be performed; with additional 7.1.3 Fault lists information on the sequence in which the analysis and test methods are to be performed, where specified The V&V process must examine and demonstrate the fail- ure mode behavior of the SRP/CS. The principles of fault • Indication whether and if so what demonstrations of analysis are stated in Annexes A to D of EN ISO 13849-2 compliance already exist for individual components; as faults to be considered (modes of failure) and fault including statement of the references to the legacy exclusions. Annex C of the present report describes the certificates subjects of fault lists, assumed faults/modes of failure and fault exclusions in detail. These general fault lists are • Fault lists to be applied (refer also to subclause 7.1.3 based upon past experience. A small number of further and Annex C) standards, such as IEC 61800-5-2 [20] governing the functional safety of electrical power drive systems and• Further references to documents concerning the genera- IEC 61784-3 [39] governing functionally safe transmission tion of confirmations, for example: QM manual, proce- on field buses, contain specialist fault lists. Annex A.2, dural instructions, forms/samples for V&V activities Table A.1 of IEC 61508-2 governing the functional safety of programmable electronic systems also contains certain • Personnel responsible for the respective analyses and precise details of faults in CPU, RAM, ROM and clock. tests (persons, department or body/test institute where The fault model for highly integrated microelectronic applicable) components (microprocessors, DSPs, ASICs, FPGAs, SoCs etc.) is however generally somewhat abstract in its • Specified (test) environment conditions and equip- characterization. It is highly advantageous for standard ment/test apparatus/tools/auxiliary equipment for elements (in both software and hardware) to be used for performance of the analyses and tests, together with fault diagnostic measures (self-tests, monitoring routines, further operating conditions to be observed; this infor- monitoring components), both for implementation and for mation may also be listed in the documentation for the demonstration. Examples of such standard elements are results of the individual V&V activities the standard CPU self-tests stated in BGIA Report 7/2006, Self-tests for microprocessors incorporating safety func- • The specified documentation of the test results (test tions [50]; RAM self-tests such as Galpat, March, Checker- reports/protocols) and detailed further documentation board, and numerous others; and commercial watchdog/ of performance of the V&V activities (e.g. test specifica- monitoring modules for IEC 61508/ISO 26262 applica- tions, test case specifications, checklists) tions. For components/elements not stated in the fault lists of EN ISO 13849-2, for example for novel technology, • Evaluation criteria for the analysis and test results, the manufacturer should add corresponding lists of faults including the measures to be taken in the event of fail- and fault exclusions of his own. Wherefault exclusions ure to pass an analysis/test are assumed, they shall be supported by adequate rea- soning. The fault lists supplemented by the manufacturer • Formal aspects such as document identification, versio- then form part of the technical documentation requiring ning and modification history, authors/persons respon- review. sible, release note(s), signature(s), etc. Fault lists exist in standards neither for SRESW nor SRASW The verification and validation plan should reasonably (see subclause 6.3). In the general reference, too, soft- be generated at an early stage of development (recom- ware faults are generally discussed with reference to mended: parallel to the specification), thereby delivering examples rather than in the form of comprehensive fault the full benefit for ongoing project management. It is lists. PC-based tools for static software analysis (for syn- also proven good practice to have the V&V plan reviewed tax, semantic and code-rule testing) provide very useful support and comprehensive information on faults. 88 7 Verification and validation In principle, the same faults shall be considered with quantifiable aspects PFH , MTTF ,