manufac- most part by structural measures. tured with the use of well-tried components and well-tried safety principles. Since complex electronic components The failure mode of electronic components is frequently such as PLCs, microprocessors or ASICS are not deemed difficult to evaluate; generally, no predominant failure well-tried in the sense of the standard, this report con- mode can be defined. This can be illustrated by an tains no corresponding examples of Category 1 electro- example: if a relay or contactor is not actuated electrically, nics. i.e. current does not flow through its coil, there is no rea- son for the contacts to close when the component is used The circuit examples include a statement of the effec- within the constraints of its specification. In other words, tiveness, i.e. the associated Performance Level, of the a de-energized relay or contactor does not switch on of its required measures for fault avoidance/fault control for own accord in response to an internal fault. The situation the programmable electronics. Further details can be is different for the majority of electronic components, found in subclause 6.3. Should ASICs be employed in a such as transistors. Even if a transistor is blocked, i.e. in development, measures for fault avoidance are required the absence of a sufficiently high base current, the possi- in the development process. Such measures can be found bility still cannot be excluded of it suddenly becoming for example in IEC 61508-2 [48], which specifies a V model conductive without external influence as a result of an for the development of an ASIC, based upon the V model internal fault, and consequently under certain circumstan- familiar from software development. ces initiating a hazardous movement. This drawback, from a safety perspective, of electronic components must The following points areworthy of mention, since such also be controlled by a suitable circuit concept. Where issues arise in practice: highly integrated modules are used, in particular, it may not be possible to demonstrate that a device or item of • Generally, two channels of an SRP/CS must not be rou- equipment is completely free of faults even at the begin- ted through the same integrated circuit. For optocoup- ning of its mission time, i.e. at commissioning. Even at lers, this requirement means for example that they must component level, manufacturers are no longer able to be housed in separate enclosures when they are used demonstrate freedom from faults with 100% test coverage to process signals from different channels. for complex integrated circuits. A similar situation exists for the software of programmable electronics. • The influence of operating systems etc. must also be considered where programmable electronics are employed. A standard PC and typical commercial ope- 103 8 Circuit examples for SRP/CS rating system is not suitable for use in a safety-related 8.2 Circuit examples control system. The required freedom from faults (or realistically, low incidence of faults) cannot generally Table 8.1 shows an overview of circuit examples 1 to be demonstrated with reasonable effort, or will not 38. Further examples can be found in [22]. Table 8.2 be attainable, on an operating system that was not (Page 105) contains an alphabetical list of the main abbre- de signed for safety-related applications. viations used in the circuit examples. Note: In the examples containing multiple safety func- tions (17, 19, 23, 24), only the first safety function of the example is shown in the safety-related block diagram. Table 8.1: Overview of the circuit examples Attained PL Implemented Technology/example No. Category Pneumatics Hydraulics Electrics b B 1, 4 c 1 2 3, 38 5,6, 7 c 2 9 c 3 10, 24 d 2 11 12 13 d 3 14 15, 16 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24 e 3 25 27 28, 29, 30 e 4 31 32, 33 33, 34, 35, 37 104 8 Circuit examples for SRP/CS Table 8.2: Overview of the abbreviations employed in the circuit examples Abbreviation Full form [D] B or MTTF values from databases (refer for example to Section D.2.6) 10D D [E] Estimated B or MTTF values (see above) 10D D [M] B or MTTF values based upon manufacturers‘ information 10D D [S] B or MTTF values based upon data listed in EN ISO 13849-1 (refer for example to Table D.2 of this report) 10D D µC Microcontroller B Nominal lifetime: the average number of switching cycles (operations) until 10% of the considered components 10 fail B Nominal lifetime (dangerous): the average number of switching cycles (operations) until 10% of the considered 10D components fail dangerously CBC Clutch/brake combination CCF Common cause failure CPU Microprocessor (central processing unit) DC Diagnostic coverage DC Average diagnostic coverage avg ESPE Electro-sensitive protective equipment FIT Number of failures in 109 component hours (failures in time) FMEA Failure mode and effects analysis FI Frequency inverter M Motor MPC Multi-purpose control MTTF Mean time to dangerous failure D n Mean annual number of operations op PFH Average probability of a dangerous failure per hour D PL Performance Level PL Required Performance Level r PLC Programmable logic controller RAM Random-access memory (variable memory) ROM Read-only memory (invariable memory) SBC Safe brake control; provides an output signal to control a brake/clamping device SDE Safe de-energization; exhausting of part of an installation SLS Safely limited speed (see Table 5.2) SRASW Safety-related application software SRESW Safety-related embedded software SRP/CS Safety-related partof a control system SS1-r, SS1-t Safe stop 1 (see Table 5.2) SS2-r, SS2-t Safe stop 2 (see Table 5.2) SSC Safe stopping and closing, trapping of compressed air in the piston chambers without closed-loop position control STO Safe torque off (see Table 5.2) T Mean time until 10% of the considered components fail dangerously 10D THC Two-hand control 105 8 Circuit examples for SRP/CS 8.2.1 Position monitoring of movable guards by means of proximity switches – Category B – PL b (Example 1) L B1 Motor starter Q1 U < M 3~ Figure 8.3: Position monitoring of movable guards by means of proximity switches Safety function • Safety-related stop