years) 5.10 Operating and limit data (operating and storage temperature range, humidity class, IP degree of protection, values for resistance to shock/vibration, EMC values, supply data with tolerances, etc.) (IP = ingress protec- tion; EMC = electromagnetic compatibility) 5.11 Generic standards to be applied for design (for the equipment, for protection against electric shock/ hazardous shock currents, for resistance to environmental conditions, etc.) 5.12 Technical and organizational measures for protected access to safety-related parameters and to SRP/CS characteristics (protection against tampering, access protection, program/data protection) and for protection against unauthorized operation (key switch, code, etc.), for example in non-standard operating modes 5.13 General technical requirements and organizational framework for commissioning, testing and acceptance, and for maintenance and repair In order to be valid, such a specification must be veri- for machines required in accordance with the European fied prior to the next design step. Verification primarily Machinery Directive 2006/42/EC [2]. concerns completeness, correctness, intelligibility and freedom from contradictions. It is clearly advantageous 6.1.2 Systematic failures for verification to be performed, for example by way of an inspection, by a party not involved in the project. If safety- In contrast to random component failures, systematic related software is employed, this safety requirements failures have causes that can be eliminated only by modi- specification must form the basis fora dedicated software fication for example of the design, the manufacturing specification (see subclause 6.3.2). process, the operating methods or the documentation. They arise at some point in the life cycle of a product, for The specification is the first document to be created in example as a result of errors in the specification or the the procedure for the design of the SRP/CS. The docu- design, or during modification of the SRP/CS. The imple- mentation is of great importance in the interests of veri- mentation of multi-channel structures and analysis of the fiable development. It must be considered that the task probability of component failures are important elements of updating a product may lie with a party other than the in the design of safety technology. Should fundamental original designer. Details concerning the necessary docu- aspects not be considered, even the most favourable mentation in the context of the iterative design process of figures for the probability of failure are of no benefit. If, for the SRP/CS can be found in subclause 6.3.8 concerning example, a product is not used correctly or is used in the software, and in subclauses 7.1.4 ff. The reader is remin- wrong environment, a risk of systematic failure may exist. ded at this point that the documents must be unambi- This fact is addressed by EN ISO 13849-1 in conjunction guously identifiable; version management is therefore with Part 2, when it requires that possible systematic essential. The contents of the information for use are ulti- failures also be considered for attainment of a PL. Essen- mately of major importance for the proper implementa- tially, it can be said that many of the basic and well-tried tion of safety functions. EN ISO 13849-1, Clause 11 lists the safety principles are already effective in preventing syste-minimum items of information that must be included in matic failures (see Annex C). These principles, which sup- the information for use. The content of the manufacturer's plement Annex G of the standard, should be considered internal technical documentation for the SRP/CS is listed in accordance with EN ISO 13849-2. in clause 10 of the standard. Requirements concerning the documentation are also set out in legislation. Box The informative Annex G of the standard contains a list of 6.2 shows the content of the technical documentation measures, and therefore indirectly also of influences that are to be considered. The measures are divided into those 44 6 Design of safe control systems Box 6.2: Technical documentation for machines: excerpt from the Machinery Directive (2006/42/EC), Annex VII, A 1. The technical file shall comprise the following: a) a construction file including: — a general description of the machinery, — the general drawing of the machinery and drawings of the control circuits, as well as the pertinent descriptions and explanations necessary for understanding the operation of the machinery, — full detailed drawings, accompanied by any calculation notes, test results, certificates, etc., required to check the conformity of the machinery with the essential health and safety requirements, — the documentation on risk assessment demonstrating the procedure followed, including: i) a list of the essential health and safety requirements which apply to the machinery, ii) the description of the protective measures implemented to eliminate identified hazards or to reduce risks and, when appropriate, the indication of the residual risks associated with the machinery, — the standards and other technical specifications used, indicating the essential health and safety requirements covered by these standards, — any technical report giving the results of the tests carried out either by the manufacturer or by a body chosen by themanufacturer or his authorised representative, — a copy of the instructions for the machinery, — where appropriate, the declaration of incorporation for included partly completed machinery and the relevant assembly instructions for such machinery, — where appropriate, copies of the EC declaration of conformity of machinery or other products incorporated into the machinery, — a copy of the EC declaration of conformity. b) for series manufacture, the internal measures that will be implemented to ensure that the machinery remains in conformity with the provisions of this Directive. for the avoidance of failures (G.3 and G.4) and those for lopment techniques and measures for the avoidance of their control (G.2). Figure 6.4 provides an overview. The systematic failures. measures for the avoidance of failures must be effective throughout all phases of a product's lifetime, and are Particular care must be taken where complex standard addressed accordingly to some degree in Chapter 7 of components are used. Should software be involved, the this report, under the aspect of validation. Although not standard provides relevant information; refer in this con- stated explicitly, appropriate care must be taken not text