is set up once each year and then • P – possibility of avoiding the hazard or of limiting the operates automatically, F1 will doubtless be selected. For harm evaluation of the frequency and duration of exposure to the hazard, cases in which the same person or different The risk graph thus leads to the necessary PL. This analy- persons are exposed must be treated in the same way. r sis must be performed for each safety function and with- out consideration of the risk reduction that is achieved as P – possibility of avoiding the hazard P1 and P2 a result. Where other technical measures are in place that (parameter P) are implemented independently of the control system, such as a mechanical guard or further safety functions, At this point, an evaluation must be made of whether they can be assumed to be effective for the purpose of recognition and avoidance of a hazardous situation is: determining the PL. r • P1 – possible under specific conditions Severity of injury S1 and S2 • P2 – scarcely possible Generally, the severity of injury (parameter S) in a hazard Aspects relevant to definition of this parameter include zone will be found to vary widely. For the requirements the physical characteristics of a machine, the qualifica- upon the control system however, only the following dis- tions of the operator, and their possible reaction. If, for tinction is relevant:example, the machine must be set up whilst running at limited speed, the parameter P1 will be the correct choice • S1 – slight (normally reversible injury) at the low acceleration values for setup: with the slow emergence of the hazards and given sufficient freedom • S2 – serious (normally irreversible injury or death) of movement, the operator will be able to move out of the hazard zone. Conversely, P2 must be selected when The usual consequences of accidents and the normal higher speeds may rapidly be reached and the operator healing processes must be taken into account for deter- has no realistic chance of evading an accident. During this mining between S1 and S2. evaluation, consideration should be given only to hazard limitation by physically possible means, and not to limi- Frequency of and/or exposure to the hazard F1 and F2 tation by control components, since the latter could fail (parameter F) in the event of a fault. For example, rollers moving in the direction of the operator‘s hand cannot entrap it under The frequency of and/or exposure to the hazard are eva- fault-free conditions. In the event of a control-system luated as: fault, however, the direction of rotation could be rever- sed, and under worst-case conditions, the hand would be • F1 – seldom to less often, and/or exposure time is short drawn in. • F2 – frequent to continuous, and/or exposure time is A further factor influencing determining of the PL is the r long probability of the occurrence of a hazardous event ([3], 5.5.2.3.2). Human behaviour and technical failure may be Consideration is therefore given both to the number of factors in this context. Both are difficult to estimate nume- interventions in the danger zone within a period and to rically. The standard states the followingexample criteria the duration of presence within it. The standard assists however: decision-making by stating that where operator interven- tions occur more frequently than once every 15 minutes, • Reliability data F2 should be selected. In all other cases, F1 is the cor- • History of accidents on comparable machines rect choice, provided the duration of hazard exposure does not exceed 1/20 of the total operation time of the machine. During evaluation, an average value should be 4 The probability of a hazardous event occurring is analysed in conjunction with the risk parameter P. 33 5 Safety functions and their contribution to risk reduction Where factors exist that enable the probability of a hazar- • Measures for stopping in an emergency dous event occurring to be deemed “low”, the PL may • Reversal of movements r be reduced by one level; it must however not drop below • Isolation and energy dissipation PL a. According to the definition, these do not constitute tech- What reasoning may now be given for a “low” ranking? nical protective measures the implementation of which Consideration of reliability data refers (among other would require a certain Performance Level. These com- aspects) to the process-related (i.e. not safety-related) plementary protective measures should however take control system. The machine manufacturer must there- effect when technical protective measures (guards and/ fore assess for this purpose whether high reliability of or protective devices) have failed or have been defeated. the components (high MTTF, in this case without “D”) In these cases in particular, an emergency stop function can also be assumed for his machine. How great is there- for example is expected actually to be serviceable. The fore the probability for example that a standard PLC for requirements placed by IEC 60204-1 [25] upon control functional control of amachine will incorrectly initiate circuits and the control functions of machines should unexpected start-up of a drive? How should new compo- therefore be observed. subclause 9.4, “Control functions nents be evaluated that have good MTTF values but with in the event of failure”, requires an appropriate level of which practical experience has not yet been gained? Are safety performance, which must be defined by the risk the conditions of use of PLCs and associated components evaluation of the machine. Ultimately, the requirements (sensors, frequency inverters, power supplies, etc.) com- of EN ISO 13849 therefore also apply to these comple- parable with the usual applications? What are the charac- mentary protective measures. Under no circumstances teristics of the supply network? Could there be elevated may complementary protective measures influence the electromagnetic interference at the machine‘s planned function and standard of safeguards. location of use? What are the prevailing temperatures? Etc. Factors such as these may increase the probability 5.6 Treatment of legacy machinery of failure, even if