years). This results in an D average probability of dangerous failure of 4.2 · 10–6 per hour. This satisfies PL b. More detailed references • EN ISO 14119: Safety of machinery – Interlocking devices associated with guards – Principles for design and selection (2013) • IEC 60204-1: Safety of machinery – Electrical equipment of machines. Part 1: General requirements (2016) Figure 8.4: Determining of the PL by means of SISTEMA 107 8 Circuit examples for SRP/CS 8.2.2 Pneumatic valve (subsystem) – Category 1 – PL c (Example2) hazardous 1A movement well-tried valve for 1V1 safety-related applications further loads and control systems 0S1 P 0V1 0Z Figure 8.5: Pneumatic valve for the control of hazardous movements Safety functions • Safety-related stop function: stopping of the hazardous movement and prevention of unexpected start-up from the rest position, implemented by safety sub-function SSC. • Only the pneumatic part of the control system is shown here, in the form of a subsystem. Further safety-related parts of control systems (e.g. safeguards and electrical logic elements) must be added in the form of subsystems for completion of the safety function. Functional description • Hazardous movements are controlled by a directional control valve 1V1 that is well-tried for safety applications. • Failure of the directional control valve may result in loss of the safety function. The failure is dependent upon the reliability of the directional control valve. • No measures for fault detection are implemented. • Should trapped compressed air pose a further hazard, additional measures are required. Design features • Basic and well-tried safety principles are observed and the requirements of Category B are met. 108 8 Circuit examples for SRP/CS 1V1 • 1V1 is a directional control valve with closed centre position, sufficient overlap, spring-centred central position and fatigue-resistant springs. • The safety-oriented switching position is attained by cancellation of the control signal. • The manufacturer/user must confirm that the directional control valve is a component that is well-tried for safety applications (of sufficiently high reliability). • The safety function can also be attained by a logical arrangement of suitable valves. Calculation of the probability of failure • MTTF : a B value of 20,000,000 switching cycles [S] is assumed for the directional control valve 1V1. At 240 D 10D working days, 16 working hours and a cycle time of 10seconds, n is 1,382,400 cycles per year and the MTTF is op D 145 years. This is also the MTTF value per channel, which is capped to 100 years (“high”). D • DC and measures against common cause failures are not relevant in Category 1. avg • The pneumatic control satisfies Category 1 with a high MTTF (100 years). This results in an average probability of D dangerous failure of 1.1 · 10-6 per hour. This satisfies PL c. Following the addition of further safety-related parts of control systems in the form of subsystems for completion of the safety function, the PL may under certain circum- stances be lower. In consideration of the estimation erring on the safe side as described above, a value of 14 years is produced for the operation time (T ) before the wearing directional control valve 1V1 must be replaced. 10D More detailed reference • VDMA technical rule 24584: Safety functions of regulated and unregulated (fluid) mechanical systems (08.16) Figure 8.6: Determining of the PL by means of SISTEMA 109 8 Circuit examples for SRP/CS 8.2.3 Hydraulic valve (subsystem) – Category 1 – PL c (Example 3) hazardous * movement 1A well-tried valve for safety-related applications 1V3 a b 1Z3 1V2 1V1 1Z2 1Z1 M 1S1 1S2 Figure 8.7: 1M 3 1P Hydraulic valve for the control of hazardous movements Safety functions • Safety-related stop function: stopping of the hazardous movement and prevention of unexpected start-up from the rest position • Only the hydraulic part of the control system is shown here, in the form of a subsystem. Further safety-related parts of control systems (e.g. safeguards and electrical logic elements) must be added in the form of subsystems for completion of the safety function. Functional description • Hazardous movements are controlled by a directional controlvalve 1V3 that is well-tried for safety applications. • Failure of the directional control valve may result in loss of the safety function. The failure is dependent upon the reliability of the directional control valve. • No measures for fault detection are implemented. 110 8 Circuit examples for SRP/CS 1V3 Design features • Basic and well-tried safety principles are observed and the requirements of Category B are met. • 1V3 is a directional control valve with closed centre position, sufficient overlap, spring-centred central position and fatigue-resistant springs. • The safety-oriented switching position is attained by cancellation of the control signal. • Where necessary, the manufacturer/user must confirm that the directional control valve is a component that is well-tried for safety applications. • The following specific measures are implemented to increase the reliability of the directional control valve: a pres- sure filter 1Z3 upstream of the directional control valve, and suitable measures on the cylinder to prevent dirt from being drawn in by the piston rod (e.g. effective wiper on the piston rod, see * in Figure 8.7) Calculation of the probability of failure • MTTF : an MTTF of 150 years is assumed for the directional control valve 1V3 [M]. This is also the MTTF value per D D D channel, which is capped to 100 years (“high”). • DC and measures against common cause failures are not relevant in Category 1. avg • The hydraulic control satisfies Category 1 with a high MTTF (100 years). This results in an average probability of D dangerous failure of 1.1 · 10-6 per hour. This satisfies PL c. Following the addition of further safety-related parts of the control system in the form of subsystems for completion of the safety function, the PL may under certain circumstances be lower. Figure 8.8: Determining ofthe PL by means of SISTEMA 111 8 Circuit examples for SRP/CS 8.2.4 Stopping of woodworking machines