are assumed, the failure rates 2004; withdrawn in 2017. According to IEC, replaced require no adjustment to the actual operating conditions. by IEC 61709:2017, cf. [7] In addition, a dangerous failure proportion of 50% – with regard to the function block – is frequently assumed for [5] Telcordia SR-332, Issue 3: Reliability Prediction many components. The table is thus simplified if super- Procedure for Electronic Equipment. Published by: fluous columns for weighting and proportioning of the Ericsson Inc., Piscataway, New Jersey 2011 failure rates are omitted from the FMEA table. The parts count method normally delivers poorer (lower) MTTF [6] Handbook of 217Plus Reliability Prediction Models. D values than the FMEA results, since higher failure rates Quanterion Solutions Incorporated, Utica, New York are generally input, and components are also considered 2015 that are capable of causing only safe-mode function-block failures. [7] IEC 61709: Electric components – Reliability – Refe- rence conditions for failure rates and stress models If the parts count principle is applied to the example for conversion (02.17.). described above (light barrier), with assumption of the failure rates adjusted for temperature in Figure B.3 and a [8] IEC 61508-6: Functional safety of electrical/elec- blanket proportion of dangerous failures for all compo- tronic/programmable electronic safety-related nents of 50%, the resulting MTTF value is 7,310.8 years. systems – Part 6: Guidelines on the application of DThis value is approximately 26% poorer than the FMEA IEC 61508-2 and IEC 61508-3 (2010). Annex C. result. The inferior value is due in this example solely to the omission of a circuit analysis. If a DC value is required for the function block, the component-related DC for each component must estimated as with the FMEA method or, for example with reference to Annex E, the DC of the entire function block. The FMEA method for quantification purposes presented in this annex of the report with reference to an electronic 258 Annex C: Fault lists, fault exclusions and safety principles C.1 Fault lists it controls the main volumetric flow of the pressure medium in conjunction with at least one further valve. The faults to be assumed for mechanical, pneumatic, hydraulic and electrical components during the validation C.2.1.2 Electrical components of an SRP/CS and the fault exclusions that are possible can be found in fault lists in EN ISO 13849-2 [1], Annexes A • Optocouplers to D. Individual product standards such as IEC 61800-5-2 [2] and IEC 61496-1 [3] also contain fault lists or supple- The fault assumption of a “short-circuit between any ments to the fault lists stated. Document 340 220 in the two input and output connections” can be excluded IFA Manual [4] explains the background and origins of the under the following conditions: the optocoupler is con- fault lists. structed in accordance with overvoltage Category III to IEC 60664-1. If an SELV/PELV power supply is employed, C.2 Fault exclusions pollution degree 2/overvoltage Category II is sufficient. Measures are taken to ensure that an internal fault in Without the assumption of fault exclusions, some safe the optocoupler cannot lead to an excessive rise in the control systems would not be achievable at reasonable temperature of its insulating materials. expense.Reasons for fault exclusion include, in particu- lar, the physical impossibility of a certain type of fault or • Printed circuit board/populated printed circuit board the technical improbability of a fault occurring, and also generally accepted technical experience (see also sub- In accordance with the standard, the fault assumption clause 7.3 of EN ISO 13849-1). Fault exclusions are also of a “short-circuit between adjacent tracks/pads” can possible for newly developed components. The precise be excluded provided the following conditions are met: reasoning for each fault exclusion must be stated in the technical documentation. EN ISO 13849-2 describes pos- – A base material of at least EP GC to IEC 60893-1 sible fault exclusions for certain discrete components, is employed. where considered permissible. The information in the following examples has been updated where required to – Creepage distances and clearances are dimensioned bring it into line with standard practice. to at least IEC 60664-5 (for distances greater than 2 mm: IEC 60664-1) with pollution degree 2/overvol- C.2.1 Examples of fault exclusions tage Category III. If both conductor tracks are powered on components by an SELV/PELV power supply, pollution degree 2/ overvoltage Category II with a minimum clearance of C.2.1.1 Fluid power components 0.1 mm applies. The fault exclusions formulated for pneumatic and – The assembled board is mounted in an enclosure hy draulic components are frequently similar. Fault exclu- giving ingress protection of at least IP 54, and the sions specific to one of the forms of fluid power also exist, printed side is coated with an ageing-resistant varnish however. or other form of protective coating that is resistant to ageing and that covers all tracks. Example of fault exclusions common to fluid power components of both types: – In practice, it is now also acceptable for a high-quality solder resistor similar to be employed for the ageing- • Directional control valves resistant varnish/protective coating. Supplementary coating of printed circuit boards in accordance with The fault assumption: “failure to switch or failure to IEC 60664-3 may reduce the pollution degree for- switch completely” can be excluded under the fol- ming the basis of the assumption, and thus also the lowing conditions: positive mechanical operation of re quired creepage distances and clearances. the moving parts, provided the actuating force is suf- ficiently high. On hydraulic directional control valves, Where lead-free soldering methods and products are a fault exclusion can be formulated for the failure of used, the formation of tin whiskers may give rise to a special type of seat and cartridge valve (refer to the electrical short-circuits. Tin whiskers are formed pri- remarks in EN ISO 13849-2, Table C.3) to open when marily on surfaces with a clean, shiny tin coating. The 259 Annex C C.3.1 Applicable to all technologies projections, needle-like in form, may attain lengths of over 1 mm (note: a much lower value is