risk reduction 5.7.5 Complementary protective measures device features a two-channel circuit, stopping in an emergency therefore also satisfies a PL of e. The following measures are required: 2. Freeing of a trapped person requires a reverse move- 1. Emergency stop ment of the knife and clamping bar; this is achieved by spring force. Suitable safety functions with a PL of e are already available in the machine control system and are used for the emergency stop. Provided the emergency-stop 38 6 Design of safe control systems i Changes with respect to the second edition • Raising of the MTTF capping in Category 4 to D (BGIA Report 2/2008e): 2,500 years added in subclause 6.2.13 (FMEA vs. parts count method). • Further information added in subclause 6.1.2 (Syste- matic failures) on application-specific integrated cir- • Explanations of the test rate revised and information cuits (ASICs), field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs), on components with DC < 60% down to DC = 0% added programmable logic modules and complex standard in subclause 6.2.14 (diagnostic coverage). mo dules. subclause 6.1.3 (Ergonomics) brought into line with the new 2006/42/EC Machinery Directive. • New subclause 6.2.17 added on alternative determi- ning of the PFH for the output part of the SRP/CS in D • Recommendations added to subclause 6.2.5 (Cate- accordance with subclause 4.5.5 of the standard. gory 2) for interpretation of therequirements for a Category 2. • The previous subclause 6.2.17 (Bus systems as “inter- connecting means”) becomes subclause 6.2.18 as a • Clarification added in subclauses 6.2.5 (Category result. 2) and 6.2.14 (DC) that up to a PL of c, providing a r warning is a permissible alternative under certain • Subclause 6.3.10 concerning requirements for SRESW circumstances to initiation of a safe state. In addition, for standard components brought into line with the testing immediately upon demand of the safety func- new subclause 4.6.2 of the standard. Reference to IFA tion added as an alternative to testing being at least Report 2/2016 concerning safety-related application 100 times as frequent as the demand of the safety software for machinery also added. function. If the safety function is tested only 25 times as frequently as a demand is made upon it, this can • Summation of PFH values stated as the new standard D be estimated on the safe side by multiplication of the procedure in subclause 6.4 (Combination of SRP/CSs PFH with the factor of 1.1. In addition, the requirement as subsystems); tabular method for downgrading of the D for the quality of the test equipment in Category 2 now PL according to the number of subsystems degraded to refers to the MTTF of the test channel (instead of only the status of an alternative solution for the event that D of the “TE” block) in relation to the MTTF of the func- PFH values are not available for subsystems. D D tional channel (instead of only of the “L” block). • Example of the paper-cutting guillotine in subclause • “Encapsulated subsystem” introduced in subclauses 6.5 updated. 6.2.9 and 6.4. • References to SISTEMA Cookbooks 1, 4 and 6 as sour- ces of further information added. 6.1 Introduction The safety-relatedquality of the SRP/CS is indicated by one of five Performance Levels (PLs). Each of these PLs Once the precise safety function and its required risk corresponds to a range of the probability of a dangerous reduction in the form of the PL have been defined, failure per hour (Table 6.1, Page 40). In addition to the r design proper begins of the safety-related parts of the average probability of a dangerous failure per hour (PFH ), D control system (SRP/CS) that are to carry out the safety further measures, for example to enhance software function(s). The corresponding subclause from the robustness or to counter systematic failures, are required iterative design process of EN ISO 13849-1 is shown in in order for the corresponding PL to be attained. Figure 6.1 (see Page 40). 39 6 Design of safe control systems From determining of the PL r (Figure 5.5) 4 Realisation of SFs, identification of the SRP/CSs For each Evaluation of PL for SRP/CSs concerning SF 5 category, MTTF , DC , CCF D avg Software and systematic failure Figure 6.1: Determining of the attained PL in the implementation To verification and Return phase of the SRP/CS: excerpt validation (V&V) if V&V from the iterative (Figure 7.1) not successful design process, see (Figure 7.1) Figure 4.1 Table 6.1: of the SRP/CS. It is followed by measures necessary for Correspondence between the probability of failure and the the control of systematic failures (subclause 6.1.2) and Performance Level ergonomic design aspects (subclause 6.1.3). Subclause 6.2 describes the Categories and the simplified method Performance Average probability of a dangerous based upon them for evaluation of the quantifiable Level (PL) failure per hour (PFH ) in h-1 D aspects. Subclause 6.3 then presents requirements a ≥ 10-5 to < 10-4 upon the software. Finally, subclause6.4 shows which b ≥ 3 ⋅ 10-6 to < 10-5 quantifiable aspects must be considered when SRP/CSs c ≥ 10-6 to < 3 ⋅ 10-6 are used in combination. Figure 6.2 explains the need for this additional subclause. The machine control sys- d ≥ 10-7 to < 10-6 tem (CS) as a whole is divided into safety-related parts e ≥ 10-8 to < 10-7 (SRP/CS) and the non-safety-related parts; the latter are generally substantially more comprehensive and serve only to perform normal operating functions. The combi- In principle, any method (e.g. Markov calculations, Petri nation of safety-related parts of a control system begins nets) may be used to prove the probability of failure. The at the point at which safety-related signals are generated following criteria must however always be observed: (these include, for example, the actuating cam and rol- ler of a position switch), and ends at the outputs of the • Quantifiable aspects (structure, component reliability, power control elements (for example including the main diagnostics in the form of tests, common cause failure) contacts