the relationship, permitted in sub- the level of diagnostic coverage provided by automatic clause 4.5.4 of the standard, between the MTTF values D testing, the mission time of the system, and in the case of of the test and functional channels in the Category 2 relevant system structures, the sensitivity of the system to architecture: the MTTF of the test channel must be at D CCF (common cause failure). least half the MTTF of the functional channel. Finally, a D requirement is imposed for redundant structures that Mathematical models are employed for this purpose common cause failures be reduced to an appropriate that take account of the combined effect of the stated level: no more than 2% of the dangerous failures may factors and return the result in the form of the PFH (as have a common cause. This must be demonstrated in D an average value over the mission time). In theory, a each case during application of the standard by means of custom model should be created for each system under a simple estimation method (Annex F). analysis when the standard is applied. For some common structural variants, the “designated architectures” of The Markov models upon which the bar chart in EN ISO EN ISO 13849-1, subclause 6.2, (cf. subclauses 6.2.1 to 13849-1 (and Figure G.1 of this report) is based take 6.2.7 of this report), Markov models have been developed account of operation of the systems under underlying con- at the IFA the numerical results ofwhich are compiled ditions that are realistic for machinery. They assume that in the form of a bar chart in subclause 4.5.4, Figure 5 of the systems: the standard (Figures 6.10 and G.1 of this report). This dispenses with the need for development of a dedicated • Are subject to at least to one demand of the safety func- mathematical model and for complex calculations, pro- tion per year vided the system essentially shares the form of one of the designated architectures, or can be broken down into • Assume the safe “Operating inhibition” state in res- system parts that do so (cf. in this context subclause 6.3 ponse to automatic detection of an internal fault, and and Annex H of EN ISO 13849-1, or subclause 6.4 of this are then generally switched off manually shortly after- report). A basic introduction to the Markov modelling wards (and at the latest after a few hours) technique can be found for example in [2]. 295 Annex G PFH D PL (1/h) 10-4 a 10-5 b 3 · 10-6 c 10-6 d 10-7 e 10-8 Cat. B Cat. 1 Cat. 2 Cat. 2 Cat. 3 Cat. 3 Cat. 4 DC = DC = DC = DC = DC = DC = DC = avg avg avg avg avg avg avg none none low medium low medium high Legend PFH Probability of a dangerous failure per hour D PL Performance Level MTTF of each channel = low Figure G.1: D PFH and Perfor- D mance Level as MTTF of each channel = medium D a function of the Category, DC and MTTF of each channel = high avg D MTTF D • Are repaired or replaced and restored to service fol- quantity indicated on the vertical axis of the bar chart lowing assumption ofthe operating inhibition state, an (cf. Figure G.1). accident or detected dangerous failure Despite consideration being given in principle to Under these underlying conditions, the quantitative tar- demands upon the safety function and to repair, the get value for modelling, the PFH , represents the average absolute values for the demand rate and the repair rate D number per hour of demands upon the safety function (the reciprocal of the repair time) have only a negligibly that are not met owing to failure. Where demands are small influence upon the PFH in this sense. Only for the D made continually upon the safety function (continuous designated architecture for Category 2 must testing at a mode of operation), it indicates the number of dangerous frequency substantially higher than that of the demand system failures per hour. For Category 2, a requirement is of the safety function be made a requirement (alterna- that testing is fully effective. This can be attained by an tively: testing takes place immediately upon demand adequate relationship between the test and demand rate and the times for fault detection and safe response are or by an adequately fast response to a fault (cf. subclause together shorter than the specified system response 6.2.14). Since the PFH determined in this way considers time; cf. EN ISO 13849-1, subclause 4.5.4). The standard D only random failures and not systematic failures and other proposes a test rate that is at least 100 times that of the negative effects, it must be regarded as a theoretical per- demand rate. Even down to a ratio of 25 : 1, however, the formance value that denotes the safety quality of a design PFH increases only by approximately 10%, which can D but does not permit conclusions for example regarding be allowed for by acorrection factor of 1.1 (cf. Note 1 in the frequency of accidents. This PFH is the mathematical Annex K of the standard). This ratio in the rates avoids D an unacceptably high impairment of diagnostics caused 296 Annex G by insuffi ciently frequent performance of the test. For the anticipated from the Markov modelling can then be esti- Categories B, 1, 3 and 4, the influence of the demand rate mated as described in the first case with addition of upon the PFH is negligibly low. The PFH values deter- an allowance. The situation is critical where the D D mined from the diagram for the Categories B, 1, 3 and SRP/CS contains wearing parts or components that 4 therefore apply to any demand rates and any (mean) deteriorate over age; these typically include “chemical” repair times. For values of less than one demand per year, components (e.g. “wet” electrolytic capacitors, batte- the bar