input and output signals are used correctly. The functional test is then performed • Functional testing at limit values and with modified at system level (on the SRP/CS). Performance of an exten- rated values, and failure mode and effects testing/tes- ded test case with (possibly simulated) fault cases serves ting by fault injection on the supply units (e.g. voltage to demonstrate the effectiveness and correct implementa- breakdown, voltage fluctuation, overvoltage, undervol- tion of fault detection and fault handling (reaction in the tage, changes in AC current and frequency, clock change event of a fault) implemented by the software. and other phenomena and operating stresses that may lead to failure) Individual software functions that have already been cer-tified or validated by quality assurance measures in the • Testing of the resistance to interference caused by form of safety function blocks do not require re-testing. ambient influences, i.e. functional testing under spe- Evidence shall however be furnished that validation has cified environmental conditions (climatic conditions, already been performed. Where a number of such safety mechanical stress, electromagnetic compatibility, etc.); function blocks are combined for a specific project, how- see clause 10 in [6] 92 7 Verification and validation ever, the resulting safety function shall be validated as a be followed for the presentation (layout, typography, etc.) whole. of information for use. Their application during evaluation is however not mandatory. Information supplied with the In the particular case of SRESW used in SRP/CS with PL e product is usually analysed by inspection and/or review. and not developed with diversity for the two channels, the requirements for SIL 3 set out in clause 7 of IEC 61508-3 7.6 Validation of the combination and [42] shall be satisfied in full during software development. integration of SRP/CS This includes the V&V activities required in the clauses concerned. Individual SRP/CS shall be validated separately prior to combination. In order for systematic faults to be avoided Should the safety-related software subsequently be modi- during the combination/integration of SRP/CS, the fol- fied, it shall be reverified and revalidated on an appropri- lowing V&V activities shall be performed: ate scale. The verification and validation plan described in subclause 7.1.2 can and should serve as an aid to plan- • Inspection of the design documents that altogether ning for this purpose. describe implementation of the safety function con- cerned A further area of software verification concerns configura- ble, parameterizable and programmable SRP/CS. Where • Comparison of the characteristic data for the interfaces parameterization and programmability are software-between the SRP/CS (e.g. voltages, currents, pressures, based, implementation and effectiveness of the measures information data) shall also be demonstrated consistent with the require- ments of EN ISO 13849-1, subclause 4.6.4, and thus with • FMEA/fault analysis of the combination/integration the configuration tools employed (parameterization/ programming programs where applicable) as a mandatory • Functional test part of the V&V activities. These activities involve both analyses of the documentation of these tools and tests on • Extended functional test the items themselves. • Checking of simplified determining of the overall PL 7.4.7 Checking of the assessment of the PL from the PLs of the individual SRP/CS, as described in subclause 6.4. Checking that the PL has been assessed properly for each SRP/CS particularly entails comprehension of proper Integration of (multiple) SRP/CS is not – yet – synony- application of the assessment method employed, inclu- mous with their commissioning with the associated com- ding correct calculations. missioning tests on a machine. The validation activities stated here, supplemented by the highly advantageous If the PL was assessed by means of the simplified pro- interface test/“I/O test”, are however suitable for this cedure, a check can be performed with reference to purpose without restriction. Figure 6.10 of whether the correct PL for the SRP/CS was determined from the Category, MTTF and DC values Retrofitting safety technology or integrating new SRP/CS D avg confirmed beforehand. into existing machine controls may present a particular challenge. Planning of the above V&V activities in good 7.5 Verification of the information for use time, applying them thoroughly irrespective of the pres- sures that may arise, possibly not before installation on Important information on safe use of the SRP/CS shall site, and documenting the activities from end to end con- be made available in the form of instruction handbooks, tributesubstantially to SRP/CS being integrated reliably. assembly instructions, rating plates and maintenance instructions. These documentation elements, de scribed 7.7 Verification of the user interface in their entirety as the information for use, and accor- (ergonomic design) ding to the Machinery Directive, also including the sales brochures(!), shall be evaluated to ascertain whether Requirements set out in EN ISO 13849 concerning the they include all the content stated in clauses 9 and 11 of ergonomics of the user interface refer to universal design EN ISO 13849-1. EN ISO 13849 does not set out any rules targets such as the prevention of hazardous action, cir- of its own concerning the form of the documentation cumvention/manipulation of the SRP/CS, general ergo- (language, digital or print form). The requirements (and nomic principles such as simplicity, and the ergonomic committee decisions) at the level of the Machinery Direc- principles referenced in EN ISO 12100 [3] and ISO 9355 tive apply. General guiding principles such as those of [52]. At the same time, it explicitly requires consideration IEC 82079-1, Preparation of instructions for use [51], can to be given to foreseeable incorrect operation. 93 7 Verification and validation If further guidance documents are required for verification ments with reference to the requirements of the relevant of the user interfaces, application of design guidelines standard governing two-hand controls, EN 574 [55]. The such as the following may be advantageous: VDI/VDE underlying conditions to be met are stated in the system 3850, Development of usable user interfaces for technical specification and confirmed by validation. The verification plants [31]; the VDMA guide to software ergonomics and now being performed confirms proper implementation the design of user interfaces [53]; and EN ISO 9241-11, of the terms,