stated in [1]) and cause electrical short circuits. The prevailing theory is • Use of suitable materials and adequate manufacturing that whiskers are caused by pressure arising during the tinning process. This possibility should be evaluated, Materials and processes for manufacture and treatment particularly when fault exclusion is applied to a compo- are selected with consideration for the use and stres- nent, for example exclusion of a short-circuit. ses. If the risk of tin whisker formation is considered high, • Proper dimensioning and geometry of all components fault exclusion for a short circuit between component terminals on a PCB is not possible, even when the All components are selected in consideration of their above conditions are satisfied. Whiskers on conductor compatibility with thea strategy for risk includes consideration for the defeating of safeguards. reduction – includes the design of safety-related parts of control systems1. 1 Safety-related parts of control systems are one means by which a safety function is implemented. The starting-point for these systems is the reception of safety-related input signals, for example detection of the position of a guard door by means of a Type 2 position switch, the separate actuator of which is fitted to the door and itself constitutes a safety-related part. Once received, the signals are processed, leading to generation of an output signal. 25 5 Safety functions and their contribution to risk reduction Figure 5.1: Iterative risk reduction process START Risk assessment carried out Determination of the limits in accordance with ISO 12100 of the machinery (see section 5.3a) yes Hazard identification (see section 5.4a a nd Annex Ba) This iterative risk reduction process shall be carried out Risk estimation separately for each hazard (see section 5.5a) under each condition of use (task). Risk evaluation (see section 5.6a) Are no other hazards generated? Has the risk been yes END adequately reduced? no Risk reduction process for the hazard: 1 by inherently safe design 2 by safeguards 3 by information for use (see Figure 1a) Iterative process of the design of safety-related parts of control systems (SRP/CSs) (see Figure 3b) Does the protective measure yes selected depend on a control system? no a Refers to ISO 12100:2010 b Refers to ISO 13849-1 26 5 Safety functions and their contribution to risk reduction The hazards are then identified; all phases of the The objective of the further procedure is to reduce the risk machine‘s lifetime must be considered in this process. In to an acceptable level. For this purpose, Figure 5.3 shows addition to automatic mode, particular attentionanticipated operating conditions. tracks of PCBs have not been determined in the past. Further criteria include switching capacity, rate of ope- The conductor tracks are usually of copper, without tin rations, withstand voltage, pressure level, dynamic coating. The reference [5; 6] can assist in assessment of pressure behaviour, volumetric flow, temperature and the phenomenon. viscosity of the hydraulic fluid, type and condition of the hydraulic fluid or compressed air. • Conductors/cables • All components are resistant to the environmental The fault assumption of a “short-circuit between any conditions and relevant external influences. two conductors” can be excluded when the conductors: The SRP/CS is designed to be able to perform its func- – are permanently connected (fixed) and protected tions under the external influences usually associated against external damage (e.g. by cable ducting, with the application. Important criteria include mecha- armouring); or nical influences, climatic influences, the leak tightness of the enclosure, and the resistance to electromagnetic – are laid in separate multicore cables or within an elec- interference. trical compartment; or • Principle of de-energization (closed-circuit current – are individually shielded with earth connection. principle) A condition of the above is that the conductors and the The safe state is attained by removal of the control sig- compartment both satisfy the relevant requirements nal (voltage, pressure), i.e. by de-energization. Impor- (see IEC 60204-1). tant criteria include the safe state when the energy sup- ply is interrupted, or effective spring return on valves in • Electromechanical position switches, manually opera- fluid power technology. ted switches • Protection against unexpected start-up Exclusion of the “Contact will not open” fault can be assumed subject to the following condition: Unexpected start-up, caused for example by stored energy or upon restoration of the power supply, is pre- – Contacts to IEC 60947-5-1:2003, Annex K openof their vented. own accord. Note that this fault exclusion applies only to the electrical part of the switch (the fault exclusion C.3.2 Examples of basic safety principles in is from the fault list for the electrical system). Sub- fluid power technology clause D.2.5 contains detailed information on the subjects of fault exclusion and modelling of electro- • Pressure limitation mechanical components. The pressure within a system or in subsystems is gene- C.3 Basic safety principles rally prevented from rising beyond a specified level by one or more pressure-relief valve(s). In pneumatic Basic safety principles are governed in Tables A.1, B.1, C.1 systems, pressure-control valves with self-venting are and D.1 of the informative annexes of EN ISO 13849-2. primarily employed for this purpose. 260 Annex C C.4.1 General well-tried safety principles for all • Measures for the avoidance of impurities in the technologies pressure medium The required purity grade of the pressure medium for • Overdimensioning/safety factor the components used is attained by suitable equip- ment, generally a filter. In pneumatics, suitable dehumi- All equipment is subjected to loading below its rated dification is also required. values. The objective is to reduce the probability of failure. C.3.3 Examples of basic safety principles in electrical technology • Positive mode of actuation • Correct protective bonding Reliable actuation by rigid mechanical parts with posi- tive, rigid rather than sprung connections. The objec- One side of the control circuit, one terminal of each tive is to attain reliable transmission of commands, electromagnetically actuated device or one terminal for example by the direct opening of a contact when a of other electrical devices is connected to a protective position switch is actuated, even should