K3 switches off the output voltage. The dangerous failure mode of the function block can thus The test of the “light barrier” function block, which is per- be described as “presence of an output voltage greater formed by the microcontrollercontrol system in Figure B.1 than zero during non-illumination of the phototransistor in accordance with the program, can be simulated by the K1”. pushbutton S1 and the voltmeter P2: the light source P1 is switched off temporarily and the output voltage ob served B.2.3 Component failure rates for whether it drops to 0 V as intended. The signal-pro- cessing elements of the “light barrier” function block (K1 Component failure rates may be obtained from a num- to K3, R2 to R9, C1) are required to behave in the same ber of sources. Examples for electronic components are way as in response to a “real” demand of the safety func- listed in [3 to 6]. These sources all contain generic data tion caused by interruption of the light beam. This test is relevant to multiple manufacturers. Collections of failure described below as “Test 1”. rates also exist for mechanical, pneumatic and hydraulic components. For certain components that are not listed B.2.2 Dangerous failure mode of a function in the relevant indexes (such as special ASICs), the failure block rate must be obtained from the manufacturer. Many com- mon quantification techniques, including the simplified The first step entails identification of the dangerous fail- method in EN ISO 13849-1 subclause 4.5.4, assume a con- ure mode of the function block. Generally, not only may stant failure rate over time. This represents an idealized individual elements fail, but an entire function block view. With appropriate dimensioning and, if necessary, may also fail in various ways as a result. The modes of preventive replacement, components can be prevented failure that are unfavourable from a safety perspective are from reaching the wear phase, during which the failure regarded as the “dangerous” failure mode of a function rate rises sharply, before the end of the mission timeT . M block. Some failures cause immediate, dangerous fail- ure of the entire system, with the result that neither the A quick source of generally conservative (pessimistic) original safety function, nor a safety-oriented substitute estimations of failure rates can be found in EN ISO 13849, function can be performed. Other failures increase the Part 1, Annex C. In particular, a method is shown here by probability of this happening in that a smaller number of which failure rates for discrete, cyclically operating elec- further failures is now sufficient to cause the system to fail tromechanical, fluid power and mechanical components dangerously. Should no redundancy exist for the function can be derived from the “B ” values (see Table D.2 of 10D block suffering failure, i.e. no second channel capable of this report). assuming its function, and should diagnostics fail to per- form sufficiently rapidly an action producing a safe state, Should a conservative estimate of the failure rate not be the dangerous failure of the function block leads to dan- chosen, it must be ensured for each component that the gerous failure of the system. However, even when, owing value employed is valid under the conditions of use (tem- to the existence of redundancy or a rapid failure response perature, current, voltage, power dissipation, etc.) in the by other circuit components, none of the possible failure application in question. The inherent heating effect must modes of the function block under analysis causes a also be taken into account. Standard data sources, such dangerous system failure, its “dangerous” failure mode as [3 to 6], provide measures by which the base failure can and must be identified. The dangerous failure mode rates applicable under defined reference conditions can is that leading to the function block no longer making its be convertedto values applicable under different condi- intended contribution to safe behaviour of the system. On tions. Suitable conversion formulae (but not base failure occasions it may be necessary for several failure modes rates) can be found in [7]. that are characterized by different but equally harmful block behaviour to be considered (e.g. continuous ener- gization and oscillation on the output). The simplest solu- tion is therefore to describe the dangerous failure mode in terms of the loss of the function block‘s safety-related functionality. Diagnostics features are considered later and will be ignored at this stage. In the example under consideration here (light barrier, Figure B.2), the output voltage of the function block is to drop to zero for as long as the phototransistor K1 fails to receive light from the LED P1, since this constitutes the contribution of this function 254 Annex B B.2.4 Production of an FMEA on a function- employed is reflected in variation in the overhead associ- block basis for quantification purposes ated with generation of the tables required. One possible execution is shown by way of example in [8]. Binding rules In the FMEA, the components of the function block are do not exist. The variant shown in Figure B.3 represents first assessed separately, and the complete assessment a compromise between a high degree of accuracy and for the block is then derived from them. For practical corresponding overhead on the one hand and excessive purposes, a table documenting both the process and the simplification on the other, and takes the accuracy and results is employed. The level of accuracy employed for availability of the data used into account. The figures performance of the FMEA may be varied; the accuracy used are assumed example values. 255 reirrab thgiL :kcolb noitcnuf eht fo noitpircseD 1K rotsisnartotohp ehtfo noitanimulli-non gnirud orez naht retaerg egatlov tuptuo na fo ecneserP :kcolb noitcnuf eht fo edom eruliaf suoregnaD esabatad ZYX :setar eruliaf fo ecruos ataD λ λ λ λ λ .batceteD fo noitroporP noitroporP -epmeT esaB tnaveleR etoN UD DD D S CD yb suoregnad efas fo erutar eruliaf tnenopmoc ssalc tnenopmoC tnenopmoC )TIF( )TIF( )TIF( )TIF( )TIF( oN tset seruliaf seruliaf rotcaf )TIF(