as subsystems technologies and/or implement different Categories or Performance Levels. Frequently, for example, different Up to this point, this chapter has considered an SRP/CS technologies are employed on the sensor/logic level (e.g. only in the form of a complete control system that can electronics in Category 3) to those on the drive level (e.g. be mapped in its entirety to a Category or designated hydraulics in Category 1), or bought-in devices are inter- architecture with a corresponding Performance Level. linked, e.g. light curtains, electronic controls and pneu- The safety function is executed entirely by such a control matic valve level as shown in Figure 6.13. Figure 6.13: Arrangement of subsystems in series for implementation of a safety function Hazardous Fluidic actuator movement Safety PLC Electronic control logic Light curtain Fluidic control Category 2 [type 2] Category 3 Category 1 PL c PL d PL c I L O I1 L1 O1 I L O TE OTE I2 L2 O2 One of the major advantages of the PL concept over the • Control subsystem in one Category: for this case, the Categories is that it provides a method by which subsys- above explanations also apply, for example with regard tems of differing Category but similar Performance Level to the designated architectures; the contribution to the can be combined to form an overall system of mixed Cate- safety function and the interfaces to which the further gories but with a defined overall PL. In practice, different subsystems can be connected in order for the safety constellations may occur. These are discussed ingreater function to be completed must however be defined pre- detail below: cisely (see below). • The entire control system in one Category, no subsys- • Arrangement of subsystems (e.g. of differing Category) tems: for this case, the explanations given above apply, in series: a method is described below by which the PL e.g. regarding the designated architectures. and the PFH of the system as a whole can be calculated D from the values for the subsystems (PL, average proba- 72 6 Design of safe control systems bility of a dangerous failure per hour PFH ). Here too, N = number of subsystems involved in the safety function D the precise definition of the contribution to the safety function and of the interfaces must be observed. PFH = average probability of a dangerous failure per hour D in the system as a whole • Integration of “encapsulated subsystems”, e.g. in the form of externally sourced subsystems for which, of PFH = average probability of a dangerous failure per hour Di the characteristic data for quantitative determining of of the ith subsystem the PL, only the PFH and PL (or SIL) are known, and D possibly informatively the Category (refer to subclause The overall PL is then limited by: 6.2.9 and Figure 6.14 in this context). • The lowest PL of all subsystems involved in the safety • Treatment of special cases, such as the arrangement of function (limitation by non-quantifiable aspects such as subsystems in parallel or the use of subsystems in only software and systematic capability) one channel of an entire control system. • The PL determined in accordance with Table 6.1 on The arrangement in series of multiple subsystems, Page 40 from the PFH calculated in accordance with D including subsystems differing in their technology, typi- Formula 5(limitation by quantifiable aspects) cally takes the form outlined by the example shown in Figure 6.13: the light curtain, electronic control system If – in rare cases – PFH values of the subsystems involved D and pneumatic valve are arranged in series to enable in the safety function are not known, an approximate esti- them to perform the safety function (stopping of the mate of the attained overall PL can be produced from the hazardous movement in response to interruption of a subsystem PL values by means of the following alternative light beam) together. The pneumatic cylinder itself is not method in EN ISO 13849-1: a part of the control system and is not therefore subject to evaluation of its PL. • The lowest PL of all subsystems arranged in series is first determined; this is PL . low A chain is only ever as strong as its weakest link: this rule also applies to the interlinking of parts of control systems • The number of incidences of PL in the series arrange- low both of different Categories and of different Performance ment of the subsystems is then counted; this is N . low Levels. As has often been observed in practice, a hydrau- lic control system of Category 1 may, owing to the high • The overall PL can then be determined from PL and low MTTF of its components, exhibit a safety level compara- N as shown in Table 6.7. D low ble to that of a Category 3 electronic control system with a medium DC and low MTTF . Since positive and negative In the method shown in Table 6.7, a probability of failure avg D correction values for the Category are already reflected in of the subsystems that lies precisely in the middle of the PLvia the MTTF and DC , the PL for the combination the valid range (on a logarithmic scale) is assumed by D avg is geared to the lowest PL in the series arrangement, and approximation for the PL in question. low not to the lowest individual Category. A rising number of control elements and their respective contributions to the Table 6.7: PFH also increases the overall probability of failure PFH Simplified calculation of the PL for series arrangements of D D of the system as a whole. Consequently, the PL of the subsystems series arrangement can be reduced by a further level from PL N Overall PL the lowest subsystem PL if for example addition of the low low PFH values causes the threshold of the PFH to the next a ≥ 4 No PL, not permitted D D PL down to be