met. Protective circuits (such as contact protection) as described in the initial paragraphs of Chapter 8 are implemented. • The contactor relays K1 to K3 possess mechanically linked contact elements in accordance with IEC 60947-5-1, Annex L. • The supply conductors to the light barrier F5 and the hold-to-run button S4 are laid such that short-circuits be tween individual conductors (including to the supply voltage) can be excluded. • The control components S1 to S4 are located at a point outside the hazard zone and from where the hazard zone can be viewed. • The muting state is displayed by two lights clearly visible to the operator at the access point to the hazard zone. • The muting sensors F1 to F4 are standard components and are engineered with electronic hardware without soft- ware. Remarks • Example enabling arrangement for automated material discharge on safeguards of access points to palletization and depalletization equipment, transfer stations, strapping or wrapping machines. The same principle can be used for access points for material infeed. 178 8 Circuit examples for SRP/CS • When muting sensors are used that employ microcontrollers and software that have not been subjected to a safety analysis by the manufacturer (i.e. the requirements imposed upon safety-related embedded software are not met), components featuringdiverse technology must be employed in the two channels in the intended PL of d. • In accordance with EN 415-4, it can be assumed that the unobserved access of persons through feed or discharge openings is prevented sufficiently reliably when requirements including the following are met: – Use of a two-beam or three-beam light barrier in consideration of the necessary installation height (with the access point open/an empty pallet present in it), or – Muting of the protective function of the light barrier by the loaded pallet with clearances to the side of less than 0.2 m, and muting activated by the pallet load only immediately prior to interruption of the light beams (without greater timing intervals and geometrical gaps). Calculation of the probability of failure In the calculation below, a DC of 0% is assumed for the output relays of the muting sensors F1 to F4, since the con- tacts employed for muting are not subject to automatic fault detection. For this reason, periodic manual inspection that can be achieved by simple means is specified. • MTTF : an MTTF of 100 years [E] is assumed for the sensor part of each of the muting sensors F1 to F4. A B value D D 10D of 2,000,000 cycles [E] applies for the output relays of F1 to F4. At 300 working days, 16 working hours and a cycle time of 200 seconds, n is 86,400 cycles per year and the MTTF 232 years for these elements. An MTTF of op D D 35 years (“high”) is produced for the channel. • DC : a DC of 90% is attained for the sensor part of the muting sensors F1 to F4 by way of the PLC monitoring. The avg DC for the output relays is estimated erring on theand safety principles serve here as of control systems have been defined, they are first a basis (see Annex C). In addition to the traditional FMEA designed, and then implemented. Finally, a verification (failure mode and effects analysis), EN ISO 13849-1 offers 20 4 Report and standard: an overview Table 4.1: Deterministic and probabilistic characteristics of the Categories; probabilistic additions since the second edition of the standard are highlighted in grey Feature Category B 1 2 3 4 Design according to relevant X X X X X standards; withstand the expected influence Basic safety principles X X X X X Well-tried safety principles X X X X Well-tried components X Mean Time to Dangerous Failure – Low to Medium High Low to High Low to High High MTTF D Fault detection (tests) X X X Single-fault tolerance X X Consideration of fault accumulation X Average diagnostic coverage – DC None None Low to Medium Low to Medium High avg Measures against CCF X X X Characterized primarily by Selection of components Structure simplified methods of calculation such as the parts count tamination, overtemperature or short circuit, can under method. Further explanations of this subject can be found certain circumstances give rise to several faults which in Annex B. may for example simultaneously disable both control channels. For control of this source of hazard, it must One of the questions most frequently asked regarding be demonstrated for Category 2, 3 and 4 systems that the probability of failure concerns the sourcing of reliable adequate measures have been taken against CCF. This is failure data for the safety-related components, the MTTF achieved by means of a points system for eight typical, D (mean time to dangerous failure) values. The manufac- for the most part technical counter-measures, with which turer of the partssafe side at 0%. The resulting DC value is 63% (“low”). avg • Adequate measures against common cause failure (65 points): separation (15), overvoltage protection etc. (15) and environmental conditions (25 + 10) • The combination of the control elements satisfies Category 3 with a high MTTF of each channel (35 years) and a D low DC (63%). This results in an average probability of dangerous failure PFH of 5.2 · 10-7 per hour. This satisfies avg D PL d. More detailed references • EN 415-4: Safety of packaging machines – Part 4: Palletisers and depalletisers (06.97) +AC (2002) • IEC 61496-1: Safety of machinery – Electro-sensitive protective equipment – Part 1: General requirements and tests (2012) and Corrigendum 1 (2015). IEC, Geneva, Switzerland 2012/2015 • IEC 61496-2: Safety of machinery – Electro-sensitive protective equipment – Part 2: Particular requirements for equipment using active opto-electronic protective devices (AOPDs) (2013). IEC, Geneva, Switzerland 2013 • IEC 62046: Safety of machinery – Application of protective equipment to detect the presence of persons (2018). IEC, Geneva, Switzerland 2018 • EN ISO 13855: Safety of machinery – Positioning of safeguards with respect to the