must at least be implemented that example by means of pushbuttons or even by a software enable influences upon the safety-related part to be avoi- display interface suitable for this purpose. A machine- ded and/or controlled. determined work rate and monitoring that requires lengthy concentration are also to be avoided. 47 6 Design of safe control systems The importance of ergonomic principles for the SRP/CS, more precise methods; the method is, however, suitable and the fact that the design of a machine does not always for practical application even by non-mathematicians, take account of all cases of intended use or foreseeable and the procedure is largely transparent and therefore misuse of the SRP/CS, is demonstrated by the HVBG verifiable. This simplified method is presented below report on the defeating of protective devices on machi- in detail, both in general terms and with reference to a nery [29]. Resources and further information on the sub- calculated practical example (see subclause 6.5). Further ject of defeating can be found on the www.stop-defeating. details on selected specific subjects can be found in the org website. annexes. EN ISO 13849-1 therefore requires that ergonomic prin- 6.2.1 Designated architectures... ciples be applied, and lists a number of useful standards for this purposein subclause 4.8. In order for designers The structure or architecture of a safety-related control of machines to be able to check the design of the human- system determines its tolerance of faults, and constitutes machine interface of the SRP/CS, the IFA has drawn up the framework upon which all other quantifiable aspects a checklist for ergonomic machine design. In February are based, by which the PL of the safety-related parts 2018, this checklist was updated together with further of control systems is ultimately formed. The experience documents in the form of DGUV Informative publication gained by the IFA in conjunction with industry since 1985 209-068/069 (formerly BGI/GUV-I 5048-1/2) [30]. Among confirms that the greater part of all implemented controls the subjects addressed more specifically are: manually can be assigned to a very small number of basic types operated actuators; keyboards, (keypad) keys and input of safety-related control systems (or to combinations of devices; displays; visual danger signals; and the soft- these basic types, see below). These types are: at one end ware ergonomics of user interfaces. VDI/VDE guideline of the spectrum, the single-channel untested system with 3850 [31] for example serves as an aid to the user-friendly components of differing reliability; in the middle of the design of user interfaces for machines. spectrum, the same type, but enhanced by testing; and at the other end, the two-channel systems featuring high- 6.2 Quantification of the probability of quality testing. Systems with more than two channels and failure other “exotic” structures are extremely rare in machine construction, and the simplified method is of only limi- The numerical quantification of the probability of fail ure ted use for their assessment. Even where more than two required by the standard for determining of the PL, often channels are present, however, it is generallysufficient referred to (including in other standards) simply as for the two most reliable channels to be considered in “quantification”, can strictly speaking never be attained order for the PL to be estimated with sufficient precision exactly, but only by approximation with the aid of statis- by means of the simplified method involving designated tical methods or other estimations. The main influencing architectures. Systems employing more than two chan- variables that must be considered during this process nels are not therefore considered in EN ISO 13849-1. of determination are stated; the method by which the SISTEMA Cookbook 4 [32] provides support in some of probability of failure is actually determined from them these cases: “When the designated architectures don't is however at the user's discretion. Any validated and match”. In addition to the “horizontal” division into dif- recognized method can be used for this purpose. Such ferent functional or test channels, a “vertical” division methods include reliability block diagrams, fault tree into a sensor level (input devices, “I”), a processing level analysis, Markov modelling or Petri nets. Depending upon (logic, “L”) and an actuator level (output devices, “O”) is who determines the probability of failure, i.e. the manu- generally also advantageous. facturer of the control system, the user of the machine, or a test body, preferences for and experience with different Continuity is assured, fully intentionally, to the Categories methods may differ. For this reason, any suitable method set out in EN 954-1, which are established in the machine is explicitly permitted in this context. construction industry and in the associated standards. In accordance with this system, EN 954-1 defines five At the same time, parties lacking prior experience in structures as Categories. EN ISO 13849-1 supplements quantification of the probability of failure require some the former Category definition slightlywith quantitative degree of support in the use of EN ISO 13849-1. This requirements for the component reliability (MTTF ), the D need was addressed by the development of a simplified diagnostic coverage of tests (DC ) and the resistance avg approach which, whilst being based upon sound scien- to common cause failures (CCF). In addition, it maps the tific principles (Markov modelling), describes a simple Categories to five basic structural types, termed “desig- method for quantification in successive steps. At certain nated architectures”. The same Categories may still take points, the description makes estimates erring on the different structural forms; the generalization which their safe side which could result in a higher figure for the pro- mapping to the associated designated architecture repre- bability of failure being estimated than that yielded by sents is still permissible as an approximation within the 48 6 Design of safe control systems simplified approach, however. The number of “vertical” 3 and 4, the occurrence of a single fault does not result blocks (input, logic, output) in a channel is for example in loss of the safety function. In Category 4, and where generally of little relevance to determination of