CCF at subsystem level. Should all eight counter- SRP/CS is replaced by a more reliable component (for a measures be satisfied, a maximum total of 100 points is more detailed explanation, refer to the end of Annex G). awarded. However, EN ISO 13849-1 requires only a mini- mum total of 65 points and even then, only for SRP/CS in 6.2.15 Measures against common cause Categories 2, 3 and 4. In Category 2 systems, the objective failure (CCF) is the avoidance of dangerous common cause failures in test and functional channels that could give rise to an The final parameter relevant to the simplified quantifi- undetected occurrence of a dangerous fault. During crea- cation of the probability of failure concerns common tion of the bar chart for simplified quantification, the 65 cause failures (CCF). Such failures are related dangerous points were equated to a beta factor of 2%. The coarse failures, for example in both channels of a redundant approximation with respect to the five Categories and the SRP/CS, that are attributable to a common cause. three MTTF and four DC classes was carried further and D avg Ex amples include unfavourable environmental conditions reduced to a simple yes/no decision. Whereas the bene- 60 6 Design of safe control systems fits of a redundant structure are wiped out almost com- further details can be found in Annex G. When the bar pletely even at a beta factor of 10% or higher, a beta factor chart is used, the relevant bar is first determined on the of no more than 2% reduces the relevance of common horizontal axis from the attained Category in combination cause failures to a justifiable level. with the attained DC class. Adequate measures against avg CCF must beprovided for Categories 2, 3 and 4 in this 6.2.16 Simplified determining of the PL by case. The level of the MTTF attained by the SRP/CS on D means of the bar chart the selected bar determines the PL, which can be read off on the vertical axis. This method permits rapid quali- Even when the four essential quantitative parameters tative estimation of the attained PL even in the absence for calculation of the probability of failure have been of precise quantitative data. Should more precise values re solved, determining the PL attained for the SRP/CS from be required, for example not only the PL, but also a value them is still a difficult task. Although in principle, any for the average probability of a dangerous failure per hour suitable method is permitted, EN ISO 13849-1 proposes a PFH , the tables in Annex K of the standard provide assis- D simple graphical method that is based upon more com- tance. Similar assistance is also provided by the IFA's plex calculations and estimations erring on the safe side: SISTEMA software (see Annex H), which analyses the bar the bar-chart method (see Figure 6.10). chart quantitatively, and by the IFA's user-friendly PLC disc [16]. This diagram was generated by Markov modelling based upon the designated architectures for the Categories; PFH D PL (1/h) 10-4 a 10-5 b 3 · 10-6 c 10-6 d 10-7 e 10-8 Cat. B Cat. 1 Cat. 2 Cat. 2 Cat. 3 Cat. 3 Cat. 4 DC = DC = DC = DC = DC = DC = DC = avg avg avg avg avg avg avg none none low medium low medium high Legende PFH Average probability of dangerous failure per hour D PL Performance Level Figure 6.10: MTTF of each channel = low Bar chartmachine controls – Appli- controls, and further practical experience with it has been cation of DIN EN ISO 13849”, appeared shortly afterwards gathered. The IFA‘s experts have commented in publica- and like the preceding report published in June 1997 tions of their own upon the essential issues concerning proved once again to be a best-seller. Since then, over application of this standard, and have discussed their 20,000 orders have been met for copies of the printed opinions on standards committees. The result was the German version. The number of downloads from the web- publication in 2015 of the third edition of EN ISO 13849-1. site of the Institute for Occupational Safety and Health of the German Social Accident Insurance (IFA) is even higher. Now is therefore an appropriate time for a revised IFA Report on safety-related machine control systems. With this report and further tools for application of the The team of authors has revised the entire report and standard – the widely used SISTEMA software application, all examples. The changes to the standard have also the SISTEMA cookbooks and the disc calculator – the re ceived particular intention and have been interpreted. IFA has made an important contribution to successful The present document is the English version of the report. introduction of the new strategies for assessing and designing the reliability of electronic and programmable This report, and the examples of controls that can be control systems. This strategy, which gives consideration imported into SISTEMA, provide all stakeholders with to the probabilities of failure of components, is en shrined straightforward access to the normative methods that in the IEC 61508 series of basic safety standards and is have now become good practice. The report is intended as now established in almost all sectors of industry, inclu- a tutorial andfor simpli- D fied determining of the PL from the MTTF of each channel = medium D Category (including measures against MTTF of each channel = high D CCF), the DC and avg the MTTF D 61 6 Design of safe control systems During creation of the bar chart, consideration was not 6.2.17 Determining the PL for the output part only given to designated architectures; certain conditions of the SRP/CS (power control elements) were also laid down that must be observed when the in accordance with subclause 4.5.5 of chart is applied: the standard • A mission time of 20 years is assumed for the In response to calls voiced by industry, an