for a channel, possibly A number of methods can be used for this purpose: com- D symmetrized over several channels, and is based upon plex, with the use of a precise failure mode and effects the MTTF of all components involved in the SRP/CS. In analysis (FMEA), or fast and simple by means of the parts D accordance with the bottom-up principle, the unit under count method, involving minor estimations erring on the consideration is successively enlarged. In the interests safe side. This beginswith the small difference between of minimizing effort, it is often advantageous only for MTTF and MTTF : what proportion of failures of a certain D safety-related components to be considered in the ana- component are dangerous? All conceivable failure modes lysis, i.e. components the failure of which could have an can be listed in a complex FMEA, evaluated as either indirect or direct negative influence upon performance “safe” or “dangerous”, and the fraction of their occur- of the safety function. For simplification purposes, fault rence estimated. Since the effects of a component failure exclusions are possible in addition; these take account upon the block determine whether the failure mode is of the fact that certain failures are extremely improbable safe or dangerous, detailed analyses of the effect caused and their contribution to the overall reliability negligibly by a failure may be necessary. A greater number of failure small. The assumption of fault exclusions is however modes may then prove to be “safe” than is the case with a subject to certain conditions; these are set out in detail simplified assessment, as proposed by EN ISO 13849-1: if in EN ISO 13849-2 and described more comprehensively the parts count method is used, its conservative approach in subclause 6.2.10. Conductor short circuits or certain assumes that overall, the safe and dangerous failures are mechanical failures can for example be excluded on the similar in number. In the absence of more detailed infor- basis of the design, provided certain conditions are met. mation, the MTTF is therefore always assumed with this D method to be double the MTTF. 6.2.12 Data sources for individual components Once again, the principle is that of the statistical mean, One of the questions most frequently posed in this con- i.e. an excessively favourable evaluation of one compo-text concerns the sourcing of reliable failure data for the nent is cancelled out by an overly pessimistic evaluation safety-related components. The manufacturer, and for of another. It is quite possible for the parts count method example his technical data sheet, should be given prefe- and an FMEA to be combined. Where the values produced rence here over all other sources. Many manufacturers, by a parts count alone yield a sufficiently low PFH, an for example of electromechanical or pneumatic com- FMEA need not be performed. Should this not be the case, ponents, now make such information available. Where however, a study of the failure modes is advantageous, data are not available from the manufacturer, typical for example by means of a partial FMEA, particularly on example values can still be obtained from established the components exhibiting poorer MTTF values. Further D databases (see Annex D). Such sources do not generally explanations of this subject can be found in Annex B. distinguish between dangerous and safe failures; it can however be assumed as a general approximation that on As with other methods of quantification, evaluation to average, only half of all failures are dangerous. With con- EN ISO 13849-1 assumes a constant failure rate through- sideration for the problem of obtaining reliability values, out the mission time of the component for all MTTF D EN ISO 13849-1 lists a number of typical values. These values. Even if this does not directly reflect the failure are however very conservative estimates, and their use is behaviour, as for example in the case of components therefore recommended only if the data sources indica- subject to heavy wear, an approximate MTTF value that D ted above are not available. In addition to MTTF values remains valid throughout the component's mission time D 56 6Design of safe control systems is nevertheless determined in this way by an estima- would of course be to take the lower value; results that tion erring on the safe side. Early failures are generally are better whilst still being safe are however produced by disregarded, since components exhibiting pronounced the following averaging formula (C1 and C2 refer here to early failure patterns do not satisfy the availability the two channels, which are symmetrized): req uirements for a machine control system and are there- fore not generally significant on the market. The advan- ⎠ ⎞ ⎟ tage of this procedure is that the MTTF is always equal to 2 1 ⎟ D MTTF = MTTF + MTTF − (2) D 3 DC1 DC2 1 1 the reciprocal of the associated dangerous failure rate λ . + D Since the dangerous failure rates λ D of the components in ⎞ MTTF DC1 MTTF DC2 ⎠ a block can simply be added together, the MTTF values D of the components involved (N components with running index i) give rise to the MTTF of the block as follows: Where the channels concerned are balanced, the MTTF D D value calculated in this way corresponds to the MTTF D N 1 N 1 value of one channel. Where they are imbalanced, the λ =Σ λ bzw. = Σ (1) D i=1 Di MTTF i=1 MTTF result is an average MTTF D than can be no less than two- D Di thirds of the better value. In this scenario, the effect may arise in addition that the better value was previously The same relationship applies to calculation of the MTTF capped to an MTTF of 100 years (2,500 years in the case D D of each channel from the MTTF values of the associated ofCategory 4), and as a result the symmetrized value D blocks. Once the MTTF for each channel is known, a