be quantified during determi- circuiting of adjacent contacts that are isolated from each ning of the PL (for example by means of SISTEMA), since as per Table D.8 of EN ISO 13849-2. they are dependent upon intentional action. It is therefore 280 Annex D For higher risks (PL c or d), control devices to IEC 60947- enclosure). Generally, base failure rates are stated in the 5-1 are not sufficient, since they satisfy only Category B first instance for reference conditions (e.g. for a compo- owing to their potential failure to open. “Safe” pushbut- nent ambient temperature of 40 °C and nominal load). tons, such as two-stage enabling buttons to GS-ET-22E, Where the actual conditions of use differ, these rates are a suitable alternative. Versions of these pushbuttons can be corrected by means of adjustment factors. Tables with one make contact are suitable for use up to PL c, two- C.2 to C.7 of the standard even list values taken from the channel versions up to PL d. SN 29500 database for certain typical electronic compo- nents.In the third edition of the standard however, the D.2.6 MTTF of electronic control components columns present in the previous version, in which a safety D margin of 10 (worst case) was implied, have been deleted. As already mentioned, declaration of the failure rates Provided the data sources are applied correctly, an additi- λ and λ , for example in the form of FIT values (failures onal safety factor is not generally required. Adjustment to D in time, i.e. failures in 109 component hours), has long stresses outside the reference conditions is not explicitly been normal practice for electronic components. It is required by the standard, and should be applied with a therefore very likely that reliability information can be sense of proportion in the interests of simplicity. obtained from the manufacturer. These data may possibly have to be converted to MTTF values, for example with D.3 Integration of components and equip- D the aid of the simplifying assumption that only 50% of ment that have already been certified all failures are dangerous. If manufacturers' data are not available, reference can be made to a number of known Manufacturers are increasingly stating an MTTF for their D datab ases. The following are cited by way of example in components on the data sheet. For components intended EN ISO 13849-1: for use as subsystems in an SRP/CS, the manufacturer states a PL to EN ISO 13849-1 or an SIL to IEC 61508, • Siemens Standard SN 29500, Ausfallraten Bauele- IEC 62061 or IEC 61800-5-2, combined with statement mente, Erwartungswerte, published by: Siemens of an average probability of dangerous failure per hour AG, Corporate Technology, Technology & Innovation PFH (PFH to IEC 61508). Should such components be D Management, Munich, Germany 2004-2014 (updated at employed in one channel of the SRP/CS only,the stated irregular intervals; order from michaela.pabst@ probability of failure per hour (PFH ) may be considered as D siemens.com or thomas.haizmann@siemens.com) a substitute for the rate of dangerous failure (see formula • IEC/TR 62380, Reliability data handbook – Universal D.6). Internal component characteristics such as redun- model for reliability prediction of electronics compo- dancy and self-diagnostics are already considered in this nents, PCBs and equipment. Published by: International case. More detailed information on this aspect can be Electrotechnical Commission (IEC), Geneva, Switzerland found in Chapter 2 of SISTEMA Cookbook 4 [9]. 2004 • Handbook of 217Plus Reliability Prediction Models, 1 1 (“Black-Box” components with MTTF = ≈ (D.6) Quanterion Solutions Incorporated, Utica, New York, D λ PFH PFH within one channel) D D D 2015, www.quanterion.com (further development of MIL-HDBK-217F) D.4 Parts count method • Telcordia SR-332, Reliability Prediction Procedure for Electronic Equipment, Issue 4, March 2016, telecom- Once the MTTF values of all safety-related components D info.telcordia.com are known, the MTTF of each block must first be calcula- D • EPRD-2014, Electronic Parts Reliability Data (RAC- ted from them. This step can be performed in close detail STD-6100), Quanterion Solutions Incorporated, Utica, by an FMEA (failure mode and effects analysis, Annex B); New York, 2015, www.quanterion.com ideally, however, the different failure modes of each • NPRD-2016, Nonelectronic Parts Reliability Data (RAC- safety-related component and their effect upon the block STD-6200), Quanterion Solutions Incorporated, Utica, must be analysed for this purpose. In consideration of New York, 2015, www.quanterion.com the effort, this approach is therefore generally worthwhile • British Handbook for Reliability Data for Components only for components with a high failure rate, i.e. a low used in Telecommunication Systems, British Telecom MTTF value. An alternative that can be performed quickly D (HRD5, last issue) and yields values that onaverage are not appreciably • Chinese Military Standard, GJB/z 299B & 299C poorer is the parts count method stated in EN ISO 13849, Part 1. Essentially, this method is a summation with two In addition to these collections of data, a number of soft- chief assumptions: ware tools are available on the market that provide auto- mated access to these or other databases. In the majority • Irrespective of the failure mode of a component and its of databases, electronic components are catalogued by effects upon the block, all failures are divided into two component type and other criteria (e.g. design, material, halves, safe and dangerous. This means that half of the 281 Annex D ⎛ ⎞ failure rate λ of a component contributes to the dange- ⎜ ⎟ rous failure rate λ of the associated block. If the propor- MTTF = 2⎜ MTTF +MTTF − 1 ⎟ (D.8) D D 3⎜ DC1 DC2 1 1 ⎟ tion of dangerous failures, λ , within the failure rate as a ⎜ + ⎟ whole has already been dete D rmined for the component, ⎝ MTTF DC1 MTTF DC2 ⎠ the same λ value is also allowed for the block. D The average MTTF per channel is thus produced from the D • The dangerous failure rate λ of the block is then formed MTTF values of the two