SRP/CS 8.2.22 Muting of a protective device – Category 3 – PL d (Example 22) +U B+U B K2 F1.1 F2.1 F3.1 F4.1 S2 Sensors F1 bis F4 STOP K3 F5 K4 I1.0 I1.1 I1.2 I1.3 I1.4 I1.5 I1.6 PLC S3 S1 O1.0 O1.1 O1.2 START R1 F3.3 F4.3 +U K4 B K2 K3 F5 S3 S1 F1.2 F3.2 Trouble- K1 ESPE shooting S4 F2.2 F4.2 TEST “Belt manual/ R2 R3 forwards” automatic +U B Muting- K2 K3 P1 P2 indicators Figure 8.43: Muting of a protective device at the discharge point ENABLE Muting Muting manual Belt drive/ automatic in the event of from a palletizer palletizing station a malfunction station controlled by a PLC Safety function • Muting function: temporary muting (bypassing) of a protective device as a function of the process. Further safety functions, such as safeguarding of access to the palletizer station or the start/restart interlock, are not dealt with in detail below. 176 8 Circuit examples for SRP/CS F1 F3 F2 F4 K4 Functional description • A triple-beam light barrier (ESPE) F5 of Type 4 to IEC 61496 safeguards the access to the discharge point of the pal- letizer station. The light barrier embodies the additional functions of start interlock and restart interlock, which are implemented by means of two antivalent inputs. Disabling of the start interlock of the light barrier is coupled to the start command for the belt drive, i.e. energization of the palletizer station, and is initiated by picking-up and subse- quent dropping-out of the contactor relay K1 in response to actuation and release of the start button S1. A condition for a valid start command is that the contactor relays K2 and K3 have dropped out (queried via input I1.1) and that the start interlock has been cancelled (queried via input I1.0). Output O1.1 is set as a result. • Four infrared light sensors F1 to F4 (forarrangement, refer also to Figure 8.44) are incorporated for control of the muting process. Via the inputs I1.2 to I1.5, the PLC monitors the actuation sequence of the four infrared light sen- sors via the sensor‘s contacts F1.1 to F4.1, in consideration of two programmed time settings. The muting function is implemented only in the output circuit of the PLC (output O1.2), independently of the output circuit of the light barrier F5. The muting contacts F1.2 and F2.2/F3.2 and F4.2, connected in series, are connected by OR logic via the diodes R2 and R3 respectively with the “enabling” function implemented by the contactor relays K2 and K3. Arrangement: top view Fencing Light barrier, triple beam Transported product F4 F1 Palett Access by persons v prohibited! Danger zone Palett discharge F3 F2 L > a! a point L Light barrier, Arrangement: side view Figure 8.44: triple beam Transported product Palletizer station F4 F1 with automatic Access by persons Danger zone: control – principle prohibited! v e.g. strapping F3 F2 Palett station of safeguarding of Transport movement 0,9 m the pallet discharge point by means of 0,4 m a light barrier, and arrangement of the muting sensors F1 to F4 177 8 Circuit examples for SRP/CS • R2 and R3 cause the muting function to be displayed correctly, and isolate the activated enabling output from the muting displays P1/P2 when the muting function is not active. Faults in R2 or R3 cannot lead to unexpected muting (i.e. dangerous failure of the muting function). • Should the voltage break down and be restored, or the light barrier F5 be interrupted and the muting function not be active, the contactor relays K2 and K3 are de-energized. The absence of latching-in under these circumstances prevents them from picking up again should the muting circuits beclosed again. The installation can be restarted only by disabling of the restart interlock, i.e. by deliberate actuation and release of the start button S1. • For starting or restarting as intended, for example following a fault on the installation, the key switch S3 must be actuated. In the event of an outage, the operator can eject a pallet from the detection zone of the light barrier and the muting sensors by means of the hold-to-run button S4. For smooth progress of the pallets through the discharge opening, two time settings in the PLC program must be matched to the velocity of the transport movement: – The time setting T1 determines the maximum period within which – following activation of the sensor F1 – the sensor F2 must be activated and the muting function thus initiated by the transported product. – Time setting T2 begins with renewed clearing of the sensor F2. T2 must be selected such that when the detection zone of the light barriers becomes clear again, K1 is energized and de-energized again before sensor F3 is deacti- vated by the transported product and the muting function thereby terminated. • Failure of the contactor relays K2 and K3 to drop out is detected at the latest before the belt drive/the palletizer station start up again, owing to the feedback of the mechanically linked break contacts to the PLC input I1.1. Failure of K1 is detected at the next discharge of a pallet. • Unintended start-up of the belt drive/palletizer station by themselves in the event of the loss and subsequent restoration of power or a failure of the standard PLC is prevented by the function of the start-up and restart inter- lock. The PLC can disable the restart interlock only immediately after the pallet has passed the lightbarrier, i.e. whilst sensors F3 and F4 are still activated. • The failure of individual muting sensors is either detected directly by the PLC program (owing to monitoring for proper completion of activation and deactivation), or becomes evident by operating inhibition during transport of the pallet. • Failure of the hold-to-run button S4, which is used only for the clearing of faults (manual muting), is detected directly by the operator. Design features • Basic and well-tried safety principles are observed and the requirements of Category B are