diagnostic coverage (DC) is determined by the pro- nel at least half as reliable as the functional channel, portion of detectable dangerous failures (DD) among all instead of MTTF ≥ 0.5 · MTTF ) dangerous failures (D), and is generally stated as a per- D,L D,TE • Examples inserted from the standard concerning fault centage. For calculation of the DC, for example in conjunc- detection in the process tion with an FMEA (failure mode and effects analysis, see Annex B), the ratio is calculated of the totals of the failure rates λ and λ of the unit under consideration. The DC is DD D The diagnostic coverage DC is a measure of the effec- seen here to be a value relating to the tested unit (e.g. the tiveness of a control system's self-test and monitoring block) and not to the test equipment. In order to simplify measures. It may relate to individual components, blocks, calculation of the DC, EN ISO 13849-1 offers an alternative or entire subsystems (DC ). The precise definition of the solution to the FMEA: it proposes DC key values for typi- avg DC is based upon the division of failures into three groups cal diagnostics measures, the attainment of which may (see Figure E.1): be assumed when the relevant measure is implemented correctly. In this way, evaluation from tables of the dia- • Safe (S) failures: these failures automatically result in gnostics measures implemented per unit is sufficient. a safe state being assumed that does not give rise to A similar procedure is frequently used by test bodies as any hazards (example: a contactor remainingopen or standard and economic practice. a valve remaining closed, resulting in interruption of energy and consequently stopping of potentially hazar- Since the proportion of dangerous undetectable failures dous movements). (i.e. 1 – DC) is the relevant value for the probability of failure for evaluation of the implemented test and moni- • Dangerous detectable (DD) failures: these potentially toring measures, selection of the key values (60, 90 and dangerous failures are detected by test or monitoring 99%) for formation of the four DC quality stages (Table E.1) measures and transferred to a safe state (example: fail- is self-explanatory. ure of a contactor to open or of a valve to close, which is detected by a readback contact or position monitor, and Table E.1: handled safely). The four levels of diagnostic coverage in accordance with the simplified approach of EN ISO 13849-1 • Dangerous undetectable (DU) failures: these potentially dangerous failures are not detected (example: undetec- DC (level of diagnostic coverage) ted failure of a contactor to open or of a valve to close, Description Range as a result of which a demand for a safe torque off does None DC < 60% not result in stopping of a hazardous movement). Low 60% ≤ DC < 90% Medium 90% ≤ DC < 99% On multi-channel systems, the term “dangerous failure” High 99% ≤ DC is used with regard to a single channel, although a dange- rous system failure need not necessarily yet have occur- red. The failures “DD” and “DU” can be combined to form the group of dangerous failures (D). The safe failures 285 Annex E A fundamental distinction must be drawn between the Table E.2 shows typical test and monitoring measures for DC of an individual test for a certain component or block, components (usually elements or blocks), andCe texte met en évi- la relación de la norma con los requisitos básicos de dence le lien entre la norme et les exigences essentielles seguridad de la directiva de maquinaria y se presentan de sécurité de la directive Machines, et présente des los posibles procedimientos de estimación del riesgo. procédures possibles permettant d’évaluer les risques. Sobre la base de estas informaciones, el informe permite Sur la base de ces informations, le rapport permet de seleccionar el nivel de prestaciones requerido (required sélectionner le niveau de performance PL nécessaire performance level PL) para las funciones de seguridad r r pour les fonctions relatives à la sécurité des systèmes de los sistemas de mando. Se explica detalladamente de commande. Il explique aussi en détail la manière de cómo de determinar el nivel de prestaciones PL que se ha déterminer le niveau de performance PL effectivement alcanzado realmente. Se tratan en detalle los requisitos atteint. Le rapport traite également en détail des exigen- para lograr el nivel de prestaciones en cuestión y sus ces à satisfaire pour atteindre le niveau de performance categorías correspondientes, la fiabilidad de los compo- donné et ses catégories correspondantes, de la fiabilité nentes, los grados de cobertura del diagnóstico, la seguri- des composants, des taux de couverture de diagnostic, dad del software y las medidas contra fallos sistemáticos de la sécurité des logiciels et des mesures à prendre con- así como los errores de causa común. La oferta se com- tre les défaillances systématiques, ainsi que contre les pleta con informaciones de trasfondo para implementar erreurs de cause commune. Cette offre est complétée par los requisitos en la práctica de la ingeniería de control. des informations générales concernant la mise en œuvre Numerosos ejemplos de circuitos que abarcan hasta el des exigences dans la pratique de laenergy dissipation function Opening of a hydraulic valve for pressure release Control modes and operating mode selection Activation of safety functions by an operating mode selector switch Function for stopping in an emergency Response to actuation of an emergency-stop device with STO or SS1 (Table 5.2) 29 5 Safety functions and their contribution to risk reduction Table 5.2: Safety functions described in IEC 61800-5-2 (2016 edition) [20] Abbreviation Description Function STO Safe torque off Motor not receiving energy capable of generating rotary movement; stop category 0 to EN 60204-1 SS1-r Safe stop 1 Motor decelerating; monitoring of deceleration ramp and STO following SS1-t standstill (SS1-r), or STO following a timeout (SS1-t); stop category 1 to EN 60204-1 SS2-r Safe stop 2 Motor decelerating; monitoring of deceleration ramp and SOS following SS2-t standstill (SS2-r), or