devices need to be checked and how often they should be checked. The higher the level of risk, the greater integrity required of the checking process. And the less frequent the “automatic” checking, the more frequent should be the imposed “manual” check. Input Cross-fault Detection In dual channel systems, channel-to-channel short circuit faults of the input devices, also known as cross-faults, must be detected by the safety system. This is accomplished by the sensing device or the monitoring safety relay. Microprocessor based monitoring safety relays, like light curtains, laser scanners and advanced non-contact sensors detect these shorts in a variety of ways. One common way of detecting cross-faults is by using pulse testing. The signals input to the MSR are pulsed very quickly. The channel 1 pulse is offset from the channel 2 pulse. If a short occurs, the pulses occur concurrently and are detected by the device. Electro-mechanical based monitoring safety relays employ a different diversity technique: one pull-up input and one pull-down input. A short from Channel 1 to Channel 2 will make the overcurrent protection device active and the safety system will shut down. Outputs MSRs come with various numbers of outputs. The types of outputs help determine which MSR must be used in specifi c applications. Most MSRs have at least 2 immediately operating safety outputs. MSR safety outputs are characterized as normally-open. These are safety rated due to the redundancy and internal checking. A second type of output is delayed outputs. Delayed-off outputs are typically used in Category 1 stops, where the machine requires time to execute the stopping function before allowing access to the hazard area. MSRs also have auxiliary outputs. Generally these are considered normally closed. Output Ratings Output ratings describe the ability of the safeguarding device to switch loads. Typically, the ratings for industrial devices are described as resistive or electromagnetic. A resistive load may be a heater type element. Electromagnetic loads are typically relays, contactors, or solenoids; where there is a large inductive characteristic of the load. Annex A of standard IEC 60947-5-1, describes the ratings for loads. 45 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery Designation Letter: The designation is a letter followed by a number, for example A300. The letter relates to the conventional enclosed thermal current and whether that current is direct or alternating. For example A represents 10 amps alternating current. The number stands for the rated insulation voltage. For example, 300 represents 300V. Utilization: The Utilization describes the types of loads the device is designed to switch. The utilizations relevant to IEC 60947-5 are shown in the following table. Utilization Description of Load Control of resistive loads and solid state loads with AC-12 isolation by opto-couplers AC-13 Control of solid state loads with transformer isolation AC-14 Control of small electromagnetic loads (less than 72 VA) AC-15 Electromagnetic loads greater than 72 VA Control of resistive loads and solid state loads with DC-12 isolation by opto-couplers DC-13 Control of electromagnets Control of electromagnetic loads having economy DC-14 resistors in circuit Thermal Current, Ith: The conventional enclosed thermal current is the value of current used for the temperature-rise tests of the equipment when mounted in a specifi ed enclosure. Rated Operational Voltage Ue and Current Ie: The rated operational current and voltage specify the making and breaking capacities of the switching elements under normal operating conditions. The Allen-Bradley Guardmaster products are typically rated at 125VAC, 250VAC and 24VDC. VA: The VA (Voltage x Amperage) ratings indicate the ratings of the switching elements when making the circuit as well as breaking the circuit. Example 1: An A150, AC-15 rating indicates that the contacts can make a 7200VA circuit. At 120V AC, the contacts can make a 60 amp inrush circuit. Since the AC- 15 is an electromagnetic load, the 60 amp is only for a short duration; the inrush current of the electromagnetic load. The breaking of the circuit is only 720 VA because the steady state current of the electromagnetic load is 6A, which is the rated operational current. Example 2: An N150, DC-13 rating indicates that the contacts can make a 275VA circuit. At 125V AC, the contacts can make a 2.2 amp circuit. DC electromagnetic 46 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Implementation of Protective Measures loads do not have an inrush current like AC electromagnetic loads. The breaking of the circuit is also 275VA because the steady state current of the electromagnetic load is 2.2 amp, which is the rated operational current. Machine Re-start If, for example, an interlocked guard is opened on an operating machine, the safety interlock switch will stop that machine. In most circumstances it is imperative that the machine does not restart immediately when the guard is closed. A common way of achieving this is to rely on a latching contactor start arrangement. Pressing and releasing the start button momentarily energizes the contactor control coil which closes the power contacts. As long as power is fl owing through the power contacts the control coil is kept energized (electrically latched) via the contactor’s auxiliary contacts which are mechanically linked to the power contacts. Any interruption to the main power or control supply results in the de-energizing of the coil and opening of the main power and auxiliary contacts. The guard interlock is wired into the contactor control circuit. This means that restart can only be achieved by closing the guard and then switching “ON” at the normal start button which resets the contactor and starts the machine. The requirement for normal interlocking situations is made clear in ISO 12100 (extract): “When the guard is closed, the hazardous machine functions covered by the guard can operate, but the closure of the guard does not by itself initiate their operation”. Many machines already have either single or double contactors which operate as described above (or have a system which achieves the same result). When fi tting an interlock to existing machinery it is necessary to determine whether the power control arrangement meets this requirement and