5 Safety Distance Calculation A second step can be used when the distance is greater than 500mm. Then the value of K can be reduced to 1600. When using K=1600, the minimum value of S is 500mm. The US CAN approach uses a one step approach: Ds = 1600 x T * Dpf This leads to differences greater than 5% between the standards, when the response time is less than 560ms. Angled Approaches Most applications of light curtains and scanners are mounted in vertical (normal approach) or horizontal evidence of conformity with the EHSRs. This fi le should include all relevant information such as test results, drawings, specifi cations, etc. It is not essential that all the information is permanently available as hard copy but it must be possible to make the entire Technical File available for inspection on request from a competent authority (a body appointed by an EU country to monitor the conformity of machinery). At the minimum, the following documentation must be included in a Technical File: 1. Overall drawings of the equipment including control circuit drawings. 2. Detailed drawings, calculation notes, etc. required for checking the conformity of the machinery with the EHSRs. 3. Risk assessment documentation, including a list of the essential health and safety requirements which apply to the machinery and a description of the protective measures implemented 4 A list of the standards and other technical specifi cations used, indicating the essential health and safety requirements covered. 5 A description of methods adopted to eliminate hazards presented by the machinery. 6 If relevant, any technical reports or certifi cates obtained from a test facility or other body. 7 If conformity is declared with a Harmonized European Standard, any technical report giving test results for it. 8 A copy of the instructions for the machinery. 9 Where appropriate, the declaration of incorporation for included partly completed machinery and the relevant assembly instructions for such machinery. 10 Where appropriate, copies of the EC declaration of conformity of machinery or other products incorporated into the machinery. 11 A copy of the EC declaration of conformity 6 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Regulations For series manufacture, details of internal measures (quality systems, for example) to ensure that all machinery produced remains in conformity: • The manufacturer must carry out necessary research or tests on components, fi ttings (parallel approach). These mountings are not considered angled if they are within ±5° of the intended design. When the angle exceeds ±5°, the potential risks (e.g. shortest distance) of foreseeable approaches must be taken into consideration. In general, angles greater than 30° from the reference plane (e.g. fl oor) should be considered normal and those less than 30 considered parallel. Safety Mats With safety mats, the safety distance must take into account the operators pace and stride. Assuming the operator is walking and the safety mats are mounted on the fl oor. The operator’s fi rst step onto the mat is a depth penetration factor of 1200mm or 48 in. If the operator must step up onto a platform, then the depth penetration factor can be reduced by a factor of 40% of the height of the step. It is important to fi x the mat(s) securely to prevent any movement. Example Example: An operator uses a normal approach to a 14mm light curtain, which is connected to a monitoring safety relay which is connected to a DC powered contactor with a diode suppressor. The safety system response time, Tr, is 20 + 15 + 95 = 130ms. The machine stopping time, Ts+Tc, is 170ms. A brake monitor is not used. The Dpf value is 1 inch, and the C value is zero. The calculation would be as follows Dpf = 3.4 (14 - 6.875) = 1in (24.2mm) C = 8 (14-14) = 0 Ds = K x (Ts + Tc + Tr + Tbm) + Dpf S = K x T + C Ds = 63 x (0.17 + 0.13 + 0) + 1 S = 1600 x (0,3) + 0 Ds = 63 x (0.3) + 1 S = 480mm (18.9in) Ds = 18.9 + 1 Ds = 19.9 in (505mm) Therefore, the minimum safe distance the safety light curtain must be mounted from the hazard is 20 inches or 508mm, for a machine to be used anywhere in the world. 59 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery Chapter 6: Safety Related Control Systems Introduction What is a safety related control system (often abbreviated to SRCS)? It is that part of the control system of a machine that prevents a hazardous condition from occurring. It can be a separate dedicated system or it may be integrated with the normal machine control system. Its complexity will vary from a simple system, such as a guard door interlock switch and emergency stop switch connected in series to the control coil of power contactor, to a compound system comprising both simple and complex devices communicating through software and hardware. Safety related control systems are designed to perform safety functions. The SRCS must continue to operate correctly under all foreseeable conditions. So what is a safety function; how do we design a system to achieve this; and when we have done that, how do we show it? Safety Function A safety function is implemented by the safety-related parts of the machine control system to achieve or maintain the equipment under control in a safe state with respect to a specifi c hazard or set of hazards. A failure of the safety function can result in an immediate increase of the risks of using the equipment; that is, a hazardous condition. A “hazardous condition” is when a person could be exposed to a hazard. A hazardous condition does not imply that the person is harmed. The exposed person may be able to acknowledge the hazard and avoid injury. The exposed person may not be able to recognize the hazard, or the hazard may be initiated by unexpected startup. The main task of