Committee for Standardization) in cooperation with ISO, and CENELEC (the European Committee for Electrotechnical Standardization) in cooperation with IEC. A thorough, documented risk assessment must be conducted to ensure that all potential machine hazards are addressed. Similarly, it is the responsibility of the machine manufacturer to ensure that all EHSR’s are satisfi ed, even those that are not addressed by harmonized EN Standards. 5 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery Technical File The manufacturer or his authorized representative must prepare a Technical File to provide every second to make sure that they can turn the output off. If one of the three fails, the output is turned off by the other two, and the fault is reported by the internal monitoring circuit. When using safety devices with mechanical contacts (emergency stops, gate switches, etc), the user can apply pulse test signals to detect cross-faults. Software Safety PLCs program very much like standard PLCs do. All of the additional diagnostics and error checking mentioned earlier is done by the operating system, so the programmer is not even aware that it is happening. Most safety PLCs will have special instructions used to write the program for the safety system, and these instructions tend to mimic the function of their safety relay counterparts. For example, the Emergency Stop instruction operates very much like an MSR. Though the logic behind each of these instructions is complex, the safety programs look relatively simple because the programmer simply connects these blocks together. These instructions, along with other logical, math, data manipulation, etc. instructions are certifi ed by a third party to ensure their operation is consistent with the applicable standards. Function blocks are the predominant methods for programming safety functions. In addition to Function Blocks and Ladder Logic, safety plc’s also provide certifi ed safety application instructions. Certifi ed safety instructions provide application specifi c behaviour. MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Implementation of Protective Measures Certifi ed function blocks are available to interface with almost all safety devices. One exception to this list is the safety edge that uses resistive technology. Safety PLCs generate a “signature” that provides the ability to track whether changes were made. This signature is usually a combination of the program, input/output confi guration, and a time stamp. When the program is fi nalized and validated, the user should record this signature as part of the validation results for future reference. If the program needs modifi cation, revalidation is required and a new signature must be recorded. The program can also be locked with a password to prevent unauthorised changes. Wiring is simplifi ed with programmable logic systems as compared to monitoring safety relays. Unlike wiring to specifi c terminals on monitoring safety relays, input devices are connected to any safety input terminals and output devices are connected to any safety output terminals. The terminals are then assigned through software. Integrated Safety Controllers Safety control solutions now provide complete integration within a single control architecture where safety and standard control functions reside and work together. The ability to perform motion, drive, process, batch, high speed sequential, and SIL 3 safety in one controller provides signifi cant benefi ts. The integration of safety and standard control provides the opportunity to utilize common tools and technologies which reduce costs associated with design, installation, commissioning and maintenance. The ability to utilize common control hardware, distributed safety I/O or devices on safety networks and common HMI devices reduce purchase and maintenance costs, and also reduce development time. All of these features improve productivity, the speed associated with troubleshooting and the lowering of training costs due to commonality. The following diagram shows an example of the integration of control and safety. The standard non-safety related control functions reside in the Main Task. The safety related functions reside in the Safety Task. All standard and safety related functions are isolated from each other. For example, safety tags can be directly read by the standard logic. Safety tags can be exchanged between GuardLogix controllers over EtherNet/IP, ControlNet or DeviceNet. Safety tag data can be directly read by external devices, Human Machine Interfaces (HMI), personal computers (PC) or other controllers. 51 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery Integrated Tasks 1. Standard tags and logic behave the same as ControlLogix. 2. Standard tag data, program or controller scoped and external devices, HMI, PC’s, other controllers, etc. 3. As an integrated controller, GuardLogix provides the ability to move (map standard tag data into safety tags for use within the safety task. This is to provide users the ability to read status information from the standard side of GuardLogix. This data must not be used to directly control a safety output. 4. Safety tags can be directly read by standard logic. 5. Safety tags can be read or written by safety logic. 6. Safety tags can be exchanged between GuardLogix controllers over EtherNet/IP. 7. Safety tag data, program or controller scoped, can be read by external devices, HMI’s, PC’s, other controllers, etc. Note, once this data is utilized outside of the safety task, it is considered standard data, not safety data. 52 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Implementation of Protective Measures Safety Networks Plant fl oor communication networks have traditionally provided manufacturers the capability to improve fl exibility, increase diagnostics, increase distance, reduce installation & wiring cost, ease maintainability and generally improve the productivity of their manufacturing operations. These same motivations have also driven the implementation of industrial safety networks. These safety networks allow manufacturers to distribute safety I/O and safety devices around their machinery using a single network cable for both safety and standard IO communications, reducing installation costs while improving diagnostics and enabling safety systems of increased complexity. They also enable safe communications between safety PLCs / controllers, allowing users to distribute their safety control among several intelligent systems. Safety networks are designed to detect transmission errors and initiate an appropriate fault reaction function. Communication errors that are detected include: message insertion, message loss, message corruption, message delay, message