tolerance with regard to its safety function. The most common way of achieving this requirement is to employ a dual channel architecture as shown above. In addition to this it is also required that, wherever practicable, the single fault should be detected. This requirement is the same as the original requirement for Category 3 from EN 954-1. In that context the meaning of the phrase “wherever practicable” proved somewhat problematic. It meant that Category 3 could cover everything from a system with redundancy but no fault detection [often descriptively termed “stupid redundancy”] to a redundant system where all single faults are detected. This issue is addressed in (EN) ISO 13849-1 by the requirement to estimate the quality of the Diagnostic Coverage [DC]. We can see that the greater the reliability [MTTF ] of the system, the less the DC we need. However, in all D cases, DC needs to be at least 60% for Category 3 Architecture. Wiring Wiring Input Logic Output Device Device Monitoring Cross Monitoring Wiring Wiring Input Logic Output Device Device Monitoring Designated Architecture Category 4 Designated Architecture Category 4 must use basic safety principles [see annexes of (EN) ISO 13849-2]. It has a similar requirements diagram to Category 3 but it 75 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery demands greater monitoring i.e. higher Diagnostic Coverage. This is shown by the heavier dotted lines representing the monitoring functions. In essence the difference between Categories 3 and 4 is that for Category 3 most faults must be detected but for Category 4 all single dangerous faults and dangerous combinations of faults must be detected. In practice this is usually achieved by having a high level of diagnostics to ensure that all relevant faults are detected before any accumulation is possible. The DC needs to be at least 99%. Reliability Data (EN) ISO 13849-1 uses quantitative reliability data as part of the calculation of the PL achieved by the safety related parts of a control system. The fi rst question this raises is “where do we get this data from?” It is possible to use data from recognised reliability handbooks but the standard makes it clear that the preferred source is the manufacturer. To this end, Rockwell Automation has made the relevant information available in the form of a data library for SISTEMA. Before we go any further we should consider what types of data are required and also gain an understanding of how it is produced. The ultimate type of data required as part of the PL determination in the standard [and SISTEMA] is the PFH [the probability of dangerous failure per hour]. This is the same data as used in IEC 61508 and represented by the PFH abbreviation used in D IEC/EN 62061. PL PFH SIL D (Performance Level) (Probability of dangerous (Safety Integrity Level) failure per hour) a ≥10-5 to <10-4 None b ≥3 x 10-6 to <10-5 1 c ≥10-6 to <3 x 10-6 1 d ≥10-7 to <10-6 2 e ≥10-8 to <10-7 3 The table above shows the relationship between PFH and PL and SIL. For some D subsystems the PFH may be available from the manufacturer. This makes life D easier for the calculation. The manufacturer will usually have to perform some relatively complex calculation and/or testing on their subsystem in order to provide it. In the event that it is not available, (EN) ISO13849-1 gives us an alternative simplifi ed approach based on the average MTTF [mean time to a dangerous D failure] of a single channel. The PL [and therefore the PFH ] of a system or D subsystem can then be calculated using the methodology and formulae in the standard. It can be done even more conveniently using SISTEMA. 76 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 System Design According to (EN) ISO 13849 NOTE: It is important to understand that, for a dual channel system (with or without diagnostics), it is not correct to use 1/PFH to determine the MTTF that is required D D by (EN) ISO 13849-1. The standard calls for the MTTF of a single channel. This D is a very different value to one of the following procedures: 1. EC Type Examination. A Technical File must be prepared and an example of the machine must submitted to a notifi ed body (test house) for EC type examination. If it passes, the machine will be given an EC type examination certifi cate. The validity of the certifi cate must be reviewed every fi ve years with the Notifi ed Body. 7 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery 2. Full Quality Assurance. A Technical File must be prepared and the manufacturer must operate an approved quality system for design, manufacture, fi nal inspection and testing. The quality system must ensure conformity of the machinery with the provisions of this Directive. The quality system must be periodically audited by a Notifi ed Body. For machines that are not included in Annex IV or machines that are included in Annex IV but are in full conformity with the relevant Harmonized European Standards, the manufacturer or his authorized representative also has the option to prepare the technical documentation and self assess and declare the conformity of the equipment. There must be internal checks to ensure that the manufactured equipment Notifi ed body examinations remains in conformity. Notifi ed Bodies A network of notifi ed bodies that communicate with each other and work to common criteria exists throughout the EU. Notifi ed bodies are appointed by governments (not by industry) and details of organizations with notifi ed body status can be obtained from: http://ec.europa.eu/growth/tools-databases/nando/ EC Declaration of Conformity Procedure The CE Marking must be applied to all machines supplied. The machines should also be supplied with an EC Declaration of Conformity. The CE Mark indicates that the machine conforms to all applicable European Directives and that the appropriate conformity assessment procedures have been completed. It is the MTTF of the combination of both channels of a two D