using alternative measures, like safeguarding, which provide effective protection. Safeguarding includes devices like interlocked guards, light curtains, and safety mats. Used with appropriate safety rated logic and output devices, operators can safety access the machine danger zones during normal production tasks and minor interventions. The safety of the machine in this case will depend on the proper application and correct operation of the protective system even under fault conditions. The correct operation of the system must now be considered. Within each type there is likely to be a choice of technologies with varying degrees of performance of fault monitoring, detection or prevention. In an ideal world every protective system would be perfect with absolutely no possibility of failing to a dangerous condition. In the real world, however, we are constrained by the current limits of knowledge and materials. Another very real constraint is cost. Based on these factors it becomes obvious that we need to have some way of relating the extent of the protective measures to the level of risk obtained at the risk estimation stage. Whichever type of protective device is chosen it must be remembered that a “safety related system” may contain many elements including the protective device, wiring, power switching device and sometimes parts of the machine’s operational control system. All these elements of the system (including guards, mounting, wiring etc.) should have suitable performance characteristics relevant to their design principle and technology. IEC/EN 62061 and (EN) ISO 13849-1 classify hierarchical levels of performance for safety related parts of control systems and they provide risk assessment methods in their annexes to determine the integrity requirements for a protective system. 31 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery (EN) ISO 13849-1:2015 provides an enhanced risk graph in its Annex A. Performance Contribution to Level, PLr Risk Reduction P1 F1 a Low P2 S1 P1 b F2 P2 Start P1 c F1 P2 S2 P1 d F2 P2 e S = Severity High F = Frequency or Duration of Exposure P = Avoidance Probability Must be determined for each safety function! IEC 62061 also provides a method in its Annex A, it takes the form shown below. Document No.: Risk assessment and safety measures Part of: Product: Pre risk assessment Issued by: Intermediate risk assessment Date: Black area = Safety measures required Follow up risk assessment Grey area = Safety measures recommended Consequences Severity Class Cl Frequency and Probability of hzd. Avoidance Se 3 - 4 5 - 7 8 - 10 11 - 13 14 - 15 duration, Fr event, Pr Av Death, losing an eye or arm 4 SIL 2 SIL 2 SIL 2 SIL 3 SIL 3 <= 1 hour 5 Common 5 Permanent, losing fingers 3 OM SIL 1 SIL 2 SIL 3 > 1 h - <=day 5 Likely 4 Reversible, medical attention 2 OM SIL 1 SIL 2 >1day - <= 2wks4 Possible 3 Impossible 5 Reversible, first aid 1 OM SIL 1 > 2wks - <= 1 yr3 Rarely 2 Possible 3 > 1 yr 2 Negligible 1 Likely 1 Ser.Hzd. Hazard Se Fr Pr Av Cl Safety measure Safe No. No. Comments 32 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety Strategy The use of either of the above methods should provide equivalent results. Each method is intended to take account of the detailed content of the standard to which it belongs. In both cases it is extremely important that the guidance provided in the text of the standard is used. The Risk Graph or Table must not be used in isolation or in an overly simplistic manner. Evaluation After the protective measure has been chosen and before it is implemented it is important to repeat the risk estimation. This is a procedure that is often missed. It may be that if we install a protective measure, the machine operator may feel that they are totally and completely protected against the original envisaged risk. Because they no longer have the original awareness of danger, they may intervene with the machine in a different way. They may be exposed to the hazard more often, or they may enter further into the machine for example. This means that if the protective measure fails they will be at a greater risk than envisaged before. This is the actual risk that we need to estimate. Therefore the risk estimation needs to be repeated taking into account any foreseeable changes in the way that people may intervene with the machine. The result of this activity is used to check whether the proposed protective measures are, in fact, suitable. For further information Annex A of IEC/EN 62061 is recommended. Training, personal protective equipment etc. It is important that operators have the necessary training in the safe working methods for a machine. This does not mean that the other measures can be omitted. It is not acceptable to merely tell an operator that they must not go near dangerous areas (as an alternative to guarding them). It may also be necessary for the operator to use equipment such as special gloves, goggles, respirators, etc. The machinery designer should specify what sort of equipment is required. The use of personal protective equipment will not usually form the primary safeguarding method but will complement the measures shown above. There will also usually be a need for signs and marking to facilitate awareness of any residual risk. 33 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery Chapter 4: Implementation of protective measures When the risk assessment shows that a machine or process carries a risk of injury, the hazard must be eliminated or contained. The manner in which this is achieved will depend on the nature of the machine and the hazard. Safety control system protective measures in conjunction with guarding either prevent access to a hazard or prevent dangerous motion at a hazard when access is available. Typical examples of safety control system protective measures are discussed later and include interlocked guards, light curtains, safety mats, two-hand controls and enabling