MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Application Examples 5. Click Download. 6. In the Connection Browser, expand the AB_VBP-1 Virtual Chassis and select the Guardmaster 440C-CR30-22BBB. Click OK. 125 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery 7. Click Yes to change from Run to Program mode. 8. When the download is complete, click Yes to change from Program to Run mode. 126 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Application Examples 9. Click Edit Logic to see the online diagnostics. Green indicates that a block is True or that an input or output terminal is ON. Flashing green indicates that a Safety Output Function is ready to be Reset. The online diagnostics mode of the 440C-CR30 relay can be very helpful during the verifi cation process. 10. Review the information in Calculation of the Performance Level and Verifi cation and Validation Plan before proceeding with Verifi cation of the Confi guration Calculation of the Performance Level When properly implemented, this safety-related stop function can achieve a safety rating of Category 4, Performance Level e (CAT. 4, PLe), according to ISO 13849-1: 2008, as calculated by using the SISTEMA software PL calculation tool. The minimum Performance Level required (PLr) from the risk assessment for this safety function is PLd. 127 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery This safety-related stop initiated by a safeguard safety function can be modelled as follows: INPUT LOGIC OUTPUT 100S K1 SensaGuard CR 30 100S K2 Subsystem 1 Subsystem 2 Subsystem 3 Because these are electro-mechanical devices, the safety contactors data includes the following : • Mean Time to Failure, dangerous (MTTF ) D • Diagnostic Coverage (DCavg ) • Common Cause Failure (CCF) Electro-mechanical devices’ functional safety evaluations include the following: • How frequently they are operated • Whether they are effectively monitored for faults • Whether they are properly specifi ed and installed 128 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Application Examples SISTEMA calculates the MTTFd by using B10d data provided for the contactors, along with the estimated frequency of use, entered during the creation of the SISTEMA project. The DCavg (99%) for the contactors is selected from the Output Device table of ISO 13849-1 Annex E, Direct Monitoring. The CCF value is generated by using the scoring process outlined in Annex F of ISO 13849-1. The complete CCF scoring process must be performed when actually implementing an application. A minimum score of 65 must be achieved. Verifi cation and Validation Plan Verifi cation and validation play important roles in the avoidance of faults throughout the safety system design and development process. ISO 13849-2 sets the requirements for verifi cation and validation. The standard calls for a documented plan to confi rm that all of the safety functional requirements have been met. Verifi cation is an analysis of the resulting safety control system. The Performance Level (PL) of the safety control system is calculated to confi rm that the system meets the required Performance Level (PLr) specifi ed. The SISTEMA software is typically used to perform the calculations and assist with satisfying the requirements of ISO 13849-1. Validation is a functional test of the safety control system to demonstrate that the system meets the specifi ed requirements of the safety function. The safety control system is tested to confi rm that all of the safety-related outputs respond appropriately to their corresponding safety-related inputs. The functional test includes normal operating conditions in addition to potential fault injection of failure modes. A checklist is typically used to document the validation of the safety control system. Prior to validating the system, confi rm that the Guardmaster 440C-CR30 confi gurable safety relay has been wired and confi gured in accordance with the installation instructions. 129 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery Verifi cation and Validation Checklist General Machinery Information Description Machine Name/Model Number Machine Serial Number Customer Name Test Date Tester Names Schematic Drawing Number Input Devices 440N-Z21S16B Confi gurable Safety Relay 440C-CR30-22BBB Variable Frequency Drive Safety Contactor 100S-C23EJ23BC Safety Wiring and Relay Confi guration Test Step Verifi cation Pass/Fail Changes/ Modifi cations 1 Confi rm that all components’ specifi cations are suitable for the application. Refer to Basic Safety Principles and Well-tried Safety Principles from ISO 13849-2. 2 Visually inspect the safety relay circuit to confi rm that it is wired as documented in the schematics. 3 Confi rm that the confi guration in the 440C-CR30 confi gurable safety relay is the correct, intended confi guration. Normal Operation Verifi cation - The safety system properly responds to all normal Start, Stop, Reset, Emergency Stop and SensaGuard switch inputs. Test Step Verifi cation Pass/Fail Changes/ Modifi cations 1 Confi rm that no one is in the guarded area. 2 Confi rm that the hazardous motion is stopped. 3 Confi rm that the door is closed. 4 Apply power to the safety system. 5 Confi rm that the Terminal 00, Terminal 01, and SMF1 input status indicator LEDs of the 440C-CR30 safety relay are green. Confi rm that all output status indicators are OFF. Confi rm that the Power and Run status indicator LEDs are green. Monitor the 440C-CR30 safety relay for proper status by using Connected Components Workbench software. 6 Press and release the Reset button on the 440C-CR30 safety relay. Confi rm that the Terminal 18, Terminal 19, and SOF1 output status indicator LEDs are green. Monitor the status indicator LEDs for proper operation, and monitor the 440C-CR30 safety relay for proper status by using Connected Components Workbench software. 130 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Application Examples 7 Confi rm that the hazardous motion does not start on powerup. 8 Press and release the drive Start button. Confi rm that the hazardous motion begins and that the machine begins to operate. 9 Press the external Stop button. The machine must stop in its normal, confi gured manner. The safety system must not respond. 10 Press and release the external Start button. Confi rm that the hazardous motion starts and the machine begins to operate. 11 Open the guarded door. The safety system