Safety related control systems for machinery Principles, standards and implementation (Revision 5 of the Safebook series) 5 KOOBEFAS YRENIHCAM MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery Content Chapter 1 Regulations 2 EU Directives and Legislation, The Machinery Directive, The Use of Work Equipment Directive, U.S. Regulations, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Canadian Regulations Chapter 2 Standards 18 ISO (International Organisation for Standardisation), IEC (International Electrotechnical Commission), EN Harmonised European Standards, U.S. Standards, OSHA Standards, ANSI Standards, Canadian Standards, Australian Standards Chapter 3 Safety Strategy 22 Risk Assessment, Machine Limit Determination, Task and Hazard Identifi cation, Risk Estimation and Risk Reduction, Inherently safe design, Protective systems and measures, Evaluation, Training, personal protective equipment, Standards Chapter 4 Implementation of Protective Measures 34 Prevention of Unexpected Start-Up, Lockout / Tagout, Safety Isolation Systems, Preventing Access, Fixed Enclosing Guards, Detecting Access and Safety Technologies and Systems Chapter 5 Safety Distance Calculation 56 Formulas, guidance and application of safety solutions utilising safety distance calculations for safe control of potentially hazardous moving parts. Chapter 6 Safety Related Control Systems & Functional Safety 60 Introduction, What is Functional Safety? IEC/EN 62061 and (EN) ISO 13849-1:2008, SIL and IEC/EN 62061, PL and (EN) ISO 13849-1:2008, Comparison of PL and SIL Chapter 7 System Design According to (EN) ISO 13849 66 SISTEMA, Safety System Architectures (Structures), Mission Time, Mean Time to Dangerous Failure (MTTF), Diagnostic Coverage (DC), Common Cause Failure (CCF), Systematic D Failure, Performance Level (PL), Subsystem Design and Combinations, Validation, Machine Commissioning, Fault Exclusion Chapter 8 System Design According to IEC/EN 62061 87 Subsystem Design - IEC/EN 62061, Affect of the Proof Test Interval, Affect of Common Cause Failure Analysis, Transition methodology for Categories, Architectural Constraints, B10 and B10d, Common Cause Failure (CCF), Diagnostic Coverage (DC), Hardware Fault Tolerance, Management of Functional Safety, Probability of an offense to apply the CE Mark for the Machinery Directive unless the machine satisfi es the relevant EHSRs. 8 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Regulations The EC Declaration of Conformity must contain the following information: • Business name and full address of the manufacturer and, where appropriate, the authorized representative • Name and address of the person authorized to compile the technical fi le, who must be established in the Community (in the case of a manufacturer outside the EU this may be the “Authorized Representative”) ; • Description and identifi cation of the machinery, including generic denomination, function, model, type, serial number and commercial name; • A sentence expressly declaring that the machinery fulfi ls all the relevant provisions of this Directive and where appropriate, a similar sentence declaring the conformity with other Directives and/or relevant provisions with which the machinery complies; • Where appropriate, a reference to the harmonized standards used; • Where appropriate, the reference to other technical standards and specifi cations used; • (For an Annex IV machines) where appropriate, the name, address and identifi cation number of the notifi ed body which carried out the EC type- examination referred to in Annex IX and the number of the EC type- examination certifi cate; • (For an Annex IV machines) where appropriate, the name, address and identifi cation number of the notifi ed body which approved the full quality assurance system referred to in Annex X; • The place and date of the declaration; • The identity and signature of the person empowered to draw up the declaration on behalf of the manufacturer or the authorized representative EC Declaration of Incorporation for Partly Completed Machinery Where the equipment is supplied for assembly with other items to form a complete machine at a later date, a DECLARATION OF DCavgmed DCavghigh 85 leveL ecnamrofreP MTTF low d MTTF medium d MTTF high d Graphical determination of PL Other factors must also be realized to satisfy the required PL. These requirements include the provisions for common cause failures, systematic failure, environmental conditions and mission time. If the PFH of the system or subsystem is known, the D tables at Annex K can be used to derive the PL. Subsystem Design and Combinations Subsystems that conform to a PL can be combined into a system using the table as shown. PLlow Nlow PL a >3 not allowed ≤3 a b >2 a ≤2 b c >2 b ≤2 c d >3 c ≤3 d e >3 d ≤3 e PL calculation for series combined subsystems MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery The use of this table from the standard is not mandatory, it is just intended to provide a very simple and a worst case alternative method if the PFHd values are not known. The system PL can be calculated by other methods including SISTEMA. The rational behind the table is clear. First, that the system can only be as good as its weakest subsystem. Second, the more subsystems there are, the greater the possibility for failure. In the system shown in the following diagram, the lowest Performance Levels are at Subsystems 1 and 2. Both are PLb. Therefore, using this table, we can read across b (in the PLlow column), through 2 (in the Nlow column) and fi nd the achieved system PL as b (in the PL column). If all three subsystems were PLb the achieved PL would be PLa. Subsystem 1 Subsystem 2 Subsystem 3 PLb PLb PLc Combination of series subsystems as a PLb system Validation Validation of safety functions includes and goes beyond the verifi cation of the achieved performance levels. The intent is to validate that the implemented safety function does in fact support the overall safety requirements for the machinery. Validation plays an important role throughout the safety system development and commissioning process. ISO/EN 13849-2:2012 sets the requirements for validation. It calls for a validation plan and discusses validation by testing and analysis techniques such as Fault Tree Analysis and Failure Modes, Effects and Criticality Analysis. Most of these requirements will apply to the manufacturer of the subsystem rather than the subsystem user. Machine Commissioning At the system or machine commissioning