repeat, and incorrect message sequence. For most applications, when an error is detected the device will go to a known de- energized state, typically called a “safe state.” The safety input or output communication module is responsible for detecting these communication errors and then going to the safe state if appropriate. Early safety networks were tied to a particular media type or media access scheme, so manufacturers were required to use specifi c cables, network interface cards, routers, bridges, etc. that also became part of the safety function. These networks were limited in that they only supported communication between safety devices. This meant that manufacturers were required to use two or more networks for their machine control strategy (one network for standard control and another for safety related control) increasing installation, training and spare parts costs. Modern safety networks allow a single network cable to communicate with safety and standard control devices. CIP (Common Industrial Protocol) Safety is an open standard protocol published by ODVA (Open DeviceNet Vendors Association) that allows for safety communications between safety devices on DeviceNet, ControlNet and EtherNet/IP networks. Because CIP Safety is an extension to the standard CIP protocol, safety devices and standard devices can all reside on the same network. Users can also bridge between networks containing safety devices, allowing them to subdivide safety devices to fi ne-tune safety response times, or to simply make distribution of safety devices easier. Because the safety protocol is solely the responsibility of the end devices (safety PLC / controller, safety I/O module, safety component), standard cables, network interface cards, bridges, and routers are used, eliminating any special networking hardware and removing these devices from the safety function. 53 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery Output Devices Safety Control Relays and Safety Contactors Control Relays and Contactors are used to remove electrical power from the actuator. Special features are added to control relays and contactors to enable their use for safety. Mechanically linked auxiliary contacts are used to feed back the status of the control relays and contactors to a monitoring logic device. The use of mechanically linked contacts helps ensure the safety function. To meet the requirements of mechanically linked contacts, the normally closed and the normally open contacts cannot be in the closed state at the same time. IEC 60947-4-1 defi nes the requirements for mechanically linked contacts. If the normally open contacts were to weld, the normally closed contacts remain open by at least 0.5mm. Conversely, if the normally closed contacts were to weld, then the normally open contacts remain open. Safety systems must only be started at specifi c locations. Standard rated control relays and contactors allow the armature to be depressed to close the normally open contacts. On safety rated devices, the armature is protected from manual override to mitigate unexpected startup. On safety control relays, the normally closed contact is driven by the main spanner. Safety contactors use an adder deck to locate the mechanically linked contacts. If the contact block were to fall off the base, the mechanically linked contacts remain closed. The mechanically linked contacts are permanently affi xed to the safety control relay or safety contactor. On the larger contactors, an adder deck is insuffi cient to accurately refl ect the status of the wider spanner. Mirrored contacts are used and are located on either side of the contactor. Dropout time of control relays or contactors play a role in the safety distance calculation. Often, a surge suppressor is placed across the coil to improve the life of the contacts driving the coil. For AC powered coils, the drop out time is not affected. For DC powered coils, the drop out time is increased. The increase is dependent on the type of suppression selected. Control relays and contactors are designed to switch large loads, anywhere from 0.5A to over 100A. The safety system operates on low currents. The feedback signal generated by the safety system logic device can be on the order of a few milliamps to tens of milliamps, usually at 24VDC. The safety control relays and safety contactors use gold plated bifurcated contacts to reliably switch this small current. 54 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Implementation of Protective Measures Overload Protection Overload protection for motors is required by electrical standards. Diagnostics provided by the overload protection device enhances not only equipment safety but operator safety as well. Technologies available today can detect fault conditions like an overload, phase loss, ground fault, stall, jam, under-load, current imbalance and over-temperature. Detecting and communicating abnormal conditions prior to tripping help to improve production up time and help prevent operators and maintenance people from unforeseen hazardous conditions Drives and Servos Safety rated drives and servos can be used to prevent rotational energy from being delivered to achieve a safety stop as well as an emergency stop. AC drives achieve the safety rating with redundant channels to remove power to the gate control circuitry. The redundant channels are monitored by either external or integral logic depending on the type of drive. This redundant approach allows the safety rated drive to be applied in emergency stop circuits without the need for a contactor. The Servo achieves a result in a manner similar to the AC drives using redundant safety signals are used to achieve the safety function “safe torque-off”. Connection Systems Connection systems add value by reducing the installation and maintenance costs of safety systems. Designs must take into account consideration of single channel, dual channel, dual channel with indication and multiple types of devices. When a series connection of dual channel interlocks is needed, a distribution block can simplify installation. With an IP67 rating, these types of boxes can be mounted on the machine at remote locations. When a diverse set of devices is required, an ArmorBlock Guard I/O box can be used. The inputs can be confi gured by software to accommodate various types of devices. 55 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery Chapter 5: Safety Distance