is possible that they will eventually be combined into one standard with common terminology. Both standards produce the same results but use different methods. They are intended to provide users with an option to choose the one most suitable for their situation. A user can choose to use either standard and they are both harmonized under the European Machinery Directive. The outputs of both standards provide comparable levels of safety performance or integrity. The methodologies of each standard have differences that are appropriate for their intended users. The methodology in IEC/EN 62061 is intended to allow for complex safety functionality which may be implemented by previously unconventional system architectures. The methodology of (EN) ISO 13849-1 is intended to provide a more direct and less complicated route for more conventional safety functionality implemented by conventional system architectures. An important distinction between these two standards is the applicability to various technologies. IEC/EN 62061 is better suited to electrical systems. (EN) ISO 13849-1 can be applied to pneumatic, hydraulic, mechanical as well as electrical systems. Joint Technical Report on IEC/EN 62061 and (EN) ISO 13849-1 A joint report has been prepared within IEC and ISO to help users of both standards. 63 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery It explains the relationship between the two standards and explains how the equivalence can be drawn between PL (Performance level) of (EN) ISO 13849-1 and SIL (Safety Integrity Level) of IEC/EN 62061 both at system and subsystem level. In order to show that both standards give equivalent results the report shows an example safety system calculated according to the methodologies of both standards. The report also clarifi es a number of issues that have been subject to different interpretations. Perhaps one of the most signifi cant issues is the aspect of fault exclusion. In general, where PLe is required for a safety function to be implemented by a safety-related control system it is not normal to rely upon fault exclusions alone to achieve this level of performance. This is dependent upon the technology used and the intended operating environment. Therefore it is essential that the designer takes additional care on the use of fault exclusions as the PL requirement increases. In general the use of fault exclusions is not applicable to the mechanical aspects of electromechanical position switches in order to achieve PLe in the design of a safety-related control system. Those fault exclusions that can be applied to specifi c mechanical fault conditions (e.g. wear/corrosion, fracture) are described in Table A.4 of ISO 13849-2. For example, a door interlocking system that has to achieve PLe will need to incorporate a minimum fault tolerance of 1 (e.g. two conventional mechanical position switches) in order to achieve this level of performance since it is not normally justifi able to exclude faults, such as broken switch actuators. However, it may be acceptable to exclude faults, such as short circuit of wiring within a control panel designed in accordance with relevant standards. SIL and IEC/EN 62061 IEC/EN 62061 describes both the amount of risk to be reduced and the ability of a control system to reduce that risk in terms of SIL (Safety Integrity Level). There are three SILs used in the machinery sector, SIL 1 is the lowest and SIL 3 is the highest. Because the term SIL is applied in the same manner in other industrial sectors such as petro-chemicals, power generation and railways, IEC/EN 62061 is very useful when machinery is used within those sectors. Risks of greater magnitude can occur in other sectors such as the process industry and for that reason IEC 61508 and the process sector specifi c standard IEC 61511 include SIL 4. 64 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety Related Control Systems & Functional Safety A SIL applies to a safety function. The subsystems that make up the system that implements the safety function must have an appropriate SIL capability. This is sometimes referred to as the SIL Claim Limit (SIL CL). A full and detailed study of IEC/EN 62061 is required before it can be correctly applied. PL and (EN) ISO 13849-1 (EN) ISO 13849-1 does not use the term SIL; instead it uses the term PL (Performance Level). In many respects PL can be related to SIL. There are fi ve performance levels, PLa is the lowest and PLe is the highest. Comparison of PL and SIL This table shows the approximate relationship between PL and SIL when applied to typical circuit structures. PL PFH SIL D (Performance Level) (Probability of dangerous (Safety Integrity Level) failure per hour) a ≥10-5 to <10-4 None b ≥3 x 10-6 to <10-5 1 c ≥10-6 to <3 x 10-6 1 d ≥10-7 to <10-6 2 e ≥10-8 to <10-7 3 Approximate correspondence between PL and SIL IMPORTANT: The table shown above is for general guidance and must NOT be used for conversion purposes. The full requirements of the standards must be referenced. The tables in Annex K provide more detailed information. 65 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery Chapter 7: System design according to (EN) ISO 13849 A full and detailed study of (EN) ISO 13849-1 is required before it can be correctly applied. The following is a brief overview: This standard provides requirements for the design and integration of safety-related parts of control systems, including some software aspects. The standard applies to a safety-related system but can also be applied to the component parts of the system. SISTEMA Software PL Calculation Tool SISTEMA is a software tool for the implementation of (EN) ISO 13849-1. Its use will greatly simplify the quantifi cation and calculation aspects of the implementation of the standard. SISTEMA stands for “Safety Integrity Software Tool for the Evaluation of Machine Applications” and is regularly reviewed and updated by IFA. It requires the input of various types of functional safety data as described later in this section. The data can be input manually or automatically by using a manufacturer’s SISTEMA Data Library. The Rockwell