Regulations The Machinery Directive The Machinery Directive covers the supply of new machinery and other equipment including safety components. It is an offense to supply machinery within the EU unless the provisions and requirements of the Directive are met. The broadest defi nition of “machinery” given within the Directive is a follows: an assembly, fi tted with or intended to be fi tted with a drive system other than directly applied human or animal effort, consisting of linked parts or components, at least one of which moves, and which are joined together for a specifi c application The current Machinery Directive (2006/42/EC) replaced the former version (98/37/EC) at the end of 2009. It clarifi es and amends but does not introduce any radical changes to its Essential Health and Safety Requirements (EHSRs). It does introduce some changes to take account of changes in technology and methods. It extends its scope to cover some extra types of equipment CE marking affi xed to machine (e.g. construction site hoists). There is now an explicit requirement for a risk assessment for the determination of which EHSRs are applicable and there are taken into account in order to estimate the amount of risk present. 25 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery ISO TR 14121-2 “Risk assessment – Practical guidance and examples of methods” shows different methods for quantifi cation of risk. There are differences in the terminology and scoring systems but all the methods relate to the principles given in (EN) ISO 12100. The following text outlines the basic risk quantifi cation principles and is intended to provide help regardless of which methodology is used. It generally follows the parameters given at the Hybrid Tool at clause 6.5 of ISO TR 14121-2. The following factors are taken into account: • THE SEVERITY OF POTENTIAL INJURY. • THE PROBABILITY OF ITS OCCURRENCE. The probability of occurrence includes at least two factors: • FREQUENCY OF EXPOSURE. • PROBABILITY OF INJURY. The probability factor itself is often split into other factors such as: • PROBABILITY OF OCCURRENCE. • POSSIBILITY OF AVOIDANCE. Make use of any data and expertise available to you. You are dealing with all stages of machine life, so to avoid too much complexity base your decisions on the worst case for each factor. It is also important to retain common sense. Decisions need to take account of what is feasible, realistic and plausible. This is where a cross functional team approach is valuable. At this stage you should usually not take account of any existing protective system. If this risk estimation shows that a protective system is required there are some methodologies as shown later in this chapter that can be used to determine the characteristics required. Severity of potential injury For this consideration we are presuming that the accident or incident has occurred. Careful study of the hazard will reveal what is the most severe injury possible. Remember: For this consideration we are presuming that an injury is inevitable and we are only concerned with its severity. You should assume that the operator is exposed to the hazardous motion or process. The severity of injury should be assessed according to the factors given in the chosen methodology. 26 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety Strategy For example as follows: • Death, losing an eye or arm • Permanent effect, e.g. losing fi ngers. • Reversible effect and requires medical attention • Reversible effect and requires fi rst aid Frequency of exposure Frequency of exposure answers the question of how often is the operator or the maintenance person exposed to the hazard. The frequency of exposure to hazard can be classifi ed according to the factors given in the chosen methodology. For example as follows: • Greater than once per hour • Between once per hour and once per day • Between once per day and once per two weeks • Between once per two weeks and once per year • Lower than once per year Probability of injury You should assume that the operator is exposed to the hazardous motion or process. The probability of occurrence of a hazardous event can be classifi ed according to the factors given in the chosen methodology. By considering the characteristics of the machine, expected human behaviours and other factors the probability of occurrence can be classifi ed. For example as follows: • Negligible • Rare • Possible • Likely • Very High Possibility of avoidance By considering how people will interact with the machine and other characteristics such as speed of motion start-up, the possibility of avoiding injury can be classifi ed according to the factors given in the chosen methodology. For example as follows: • Likely • Possible • Impossible 27 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery After all the headings have been addressed the results are entered into the graph or table of whichever risk quantifi cation is being used. This produces some form of quantifi ed estimate of the risks at the various hazards at a machine. This information can then be used to decide which risks need to be reduced in order to achieve an acceptable level of safety. Risk Reduction Now we must consider each machine and its respective risks in turn and take measures to address all of its hazards. Hierarchy of Measures for Risk Reduction There are three basic methods to be considered and used in the following order: 1. Eliminate or reduce risks as far as possible (inherently safe machinery design and construction). 2. Install safeguarding and complementary protective measures in relation to risks that cannot be eliminated by design. 3. Provision of information for safe use including warning signs and signals. Also information of any residual risks and whether any particular training or personal protection equipment is required. Each measure from the hierarchy should be considered starting from the top and used where possible. This will usually result in the use of a combination of measures. Elimination of risk (inherently safe design) At