the machine design phase it will be possible to avoid many of the possible hazards simply by careful consideration of factors such as materials, access requirements, hot surfaces, transmission methods, trap points, voltage levels etc. For example, if access is not required to a dangerous area, the solution is to safeguard it within the body of the machine or by some type of fi xed enclosing guard. Protective measures and systems If access is required, then life becomes a little more diffi cult. It will be necessary to ensure that access can only be gained while the machine is safe. Protective measures such as interlocked guard doors and/or trip systems will be required. The choice of protective device or system should be heavily infl uenced by the operating characteristics of the machine. This is extremely important as a system that impairs machine effi ciency will render itself liable to unauthorised removal or bypassing. 28 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety Strategy One of the most involved and complete interactions between people and machinery is during maintenance, troubleshooting and repair. For routine and minor interventions it may be possible to use safety related system based protective measures (see later description) to ensure safety. But across all regulations it is absolutely clear that, for any type of intervention such as signifi cant maintenance, repair, disassembly or work on power circuits, there should the both the provision and use of equipment that ensures the isolation and dissipation of energy (sometimes including gravitational force) at the machine. In this way the risk of unexpected start-up and exposure to energy sources can be eliminated. This is covered in many different regulations and standards. For example, see the previous text under “U S Regulations” that describes the “Lockout/Tagout” regulations and standard. European and ISO standard EN 1037 and ISO 14118 standards “Prevention of unexpected start-up” also give requirements. In terms of electrical technology IEC/EN 60204-1 and NFPA 79 also give guidance and requirements. Of course it is imperative that a proper working system that ensures all the correct procedures are followed. The following section describes some typical implementations. Prevention of unexpected power-up Prevention of unexpected power-up is covered by many standards. Examples include ISO14118, EN1037, ISO12100, OSHA 1910.147, ANSI Z244-1, CSA Z460-05, and AS 4024.1603. These standards have a common theme: the primary method of preventing unexpected power up is to remove the energy from the system and to lock the system in the off state. The purpose is to allow people to safely enter a machine’s hazard zones. Lockout / Tagout New machines must be built with lockable energy isolating devices. The devices apply to all types of energy, including electrical, hydraulic, pneumatic, gravity, and lasers. Lockout refers to applying a lock to an energy isolating device. The lock must only be removed by its owner or by a supervisor under controlled conditions. When multiple individuals must work on the machine, each individual must apply their locks to the energy isolating devices. Each lock must be identifi able to its owner. In the U.S., tagout is an alternative to lockout for older machines where a lockable device has never been installed. In this case, the machine is turned off and a tag is applied to warn all personnel to not start the machine while the tag holder is working on the machine. Beginning in 1990, machines that are modifi ed must be upgraded to include a lockable energy isolating device. 29 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery An energy isolating device is a mechanical device that physically prevents the transmission or release of energy. These devices can take the form of a circuit breaker, a disconnect switch, a manually operated switch, a plug/socket combination or a manually operated valve. Electrical isolating devices must switch all ungrounded supply conductors and no pole can operate independently. The purpose of lockout and tagout is to prevent the unexpected startup of the machine. Unexpected startup may be the result of various causes: a failure of the control system; an inappropriate action on a start control, sensor, contactor, or valve; a restoration of power after an interruption; or some other internal or external infl uences. After completion of the lockout or tagout process, the dissipation of the energy must be verifi ed. Safety Isolation Systems Safety isolation systems execute an orderly shutdown of a machine and also provide an easy method of locking off the power to a machine. This approach works well for larger machines and manufacturing systems, especially when multiple energy sources are located on a mezzanine level or at distant locations. Load Disconnects For local isolation of electrical devices, switches can be placed just prior to the device that needs to be isolated and locked out. The Bulletin 194E Load Switches are an example of a product that are capable of both isolation and lockout. Trapped Key Systems Trapped key systems are another method for implementing a lockout system. Many trapped key systems start with an energy isolating device. When the switch is turned off by the “primary” key, the electrical energy to the machine is removed from all the ungrounded supply conductors simultaneously. The primary key can then be removed and taken to a location where machine access is needed. Various components can be added to accommodate more complex lockout arrangements. Alternative Measures to Lockout Lockout and tagout must be used during servicing or maintenance of the machines. Machine interventions during normal production operations are covered by safeguarding measures such as guard door interlocking systems. The difference between servicing/maintenance and normal production operations is not always clear. 30 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety Strategy Some minor adjustments and servicing tasks, which take place during normal production operations, do not necessarily require the machine to be locked out. Examples include loading and unloading materials, minor tool changes and adjustments, servicing lubrication levels, and removing waste material. These tasks must be routine, repetitive, and integral to the use of the equipment for production, and the work is performed