the safety system designer is to prevent hazardous conditions and to prevent unexpected startup. The safety function can often be described with multi-part requirements. For example, the safety function initiated by an interlocking guard has three parts: 1. The hazards protected by the guard cannot operate until the guard is closed; 2. Opening the guard will cause the hazard to stop if operational at the time of the opening; and 3. The closure of the guard does not restart the hazard protected by the guard. 60 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety Related Control Systems & Functional Safety When stating the safety function for a specifi c application, the word “hazard” must be changed to the specifi c hazard. The source of the hazard must not be confused with the results of the hazard. Crushing, cutting, and burning are results of a hazard. An example of a hazard source is a motor, ram, knife, torch, pump, laser, robot, end-effector, solenoid, valve, other type of actuator, or a mechanical hazard involving gravity. In discussing safety systems, the phrase “at or before a demand is placed on the safety function” is used. What is a demand on the safety function? Examples of demands placed on the safety function are the opening of an interlocked guard, the breaking of a light curtain, the stepping onto a safety mat, or the pressing of an emergency stop. An operator is demanding that the hazard either stop or remain de-energized if it is already stopped. The safety-related parts of the machine control system execute the safety function. The safety function is not executed by a single device, for example, just by the guard. The interlock on the guard sends a command to a logic device, which in turn, disables an actuator. The safety function starts with the command and ends with the implementation. The safety system must be designed with a level of integrity that is commensurate with the risks of the machine. Higher risks require higher integrity levels to ensure the performance of the safety function. Machine safety systems can be classifi ed into levels of performance of their ability to ensure the operation of their safety function or, in other words, their functional safety integrity level. Functional Safety of Control Systems What is Functional Safety? Functional safety is the part of the overall safety requirement and that depends on the correct functioning of the process or equipment in response to its inputs. IEC TR 61508-0 provides the following example to help clarify the meaning of functional safety. “For example, an over-temperature protection device, using a thermal sensor in the windings of an electric motor to de-energize the motor before they can overheat, is an instance of functional safety. But providing specialized insulation to withstand high temperatures is not an instance of functional safety (although it is still an instance of safety and could protect against exactly the same hazard).” As another example, compare hard guarding to an interlocked guard. The hard guarding is not considered “functional safety” although it may protect against access to the same hazard as an interlocked door. The interlocked door is an instance of functional safety. When the guard is opened, the interlock serves as an “input” to a system that achieves a safe state. Similarly, personal protective equipment (PPE) 61 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery is used as a protective measure to help increase safety of personnel. PPE is not considered functional safety. Functional safety was a term introduced in IEC 61508:1998. Since then, the term has sometimes been associated only with programmable safety systems. This is a misconception. Functional safety covers a broad range of devices that are used to create safety systems. Devices like interlocks, light curtains, safety relays, safety PLCs, safety contactors, and safety drives are interconnected to form a safety system, which performs a specifi c safety-related function. This is functional safety. Therefore the functional safety of an electrical control system is highly relevant to the control of hazards arising from moving parts of machinery. Two types of requirements are necessary to achieve functional safety: • The safety function and • The safety integrity. Risk assessment plays a key role in developing the functional safety requirements. Task and hazard analysis leads to the functional requirements for safety (i.e. the safety function). The risk quantifi cation yields the safety integrity requirements (i.e. the safety integrity or performance level). Four of the most signifi cant control system functional safety standards for machinery are: 1. IEC/EN 61508 “Functional safety of safety related electrical, electronic and programmable electronic control systems” This standard contains the requirements and provisions that are applicable to the design of complex electronic and programmable systems and subsystems. The standard is generic so it is not restricted to the machinery sector. 2. IEC/EN 62061 “Safety of machinery - Functional safety of safety related electrical, electronic and programmable electronic control systems” This standard is the machinery specifi c implementation of IEC/EN 61508. It provides requirements that are applicable to the system level design of all types of machinery safety-related electrical control systems and also for the design of non-complex subsystems or devices. It requires that complex or programmable subsystems should satisfy IEC/EN 61508 62 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety Related Control Systems & Functional Safety 3. (EN) ISO 13849-1 “Safety of machinery - Safety related parts of control systems” This standard is intended to provide a direct transition path from the categories of the previous EN 954-1. 4. IEC 61511 “Functional safety - Safety instrumented systems for the process industry sector” This standard is the process sector specifi c implementation of IEC/EN 61508 The functional safety standards represent a signifi cant step beyond the familiar existing requirements such as Control Reliable and the Categories system of the previous ISO 13849-1:1999 (EN 954-1:1996). Categories have not disappeared completely; they are still used in the current (EN) ISO 13849-1. IEC/EN 62061 and (EN) ISO 13849-1 IEC/EN 62061 and (EN) ISO 13849-1 both cover safety-related electrical control systems. It