motion must stop within less than 0.7 seconds. Monitor the status indicator LEDs for proper operation, and monitor the 440C-CR30 relay for proper status by using the Connected Components Workbench software. 3 Close the guarded door. The machine must not start. The 440C- CR30 relay must not respond. Monitor the status indicator LEDs for proper operation, and monitor the 440C-CR30 relay for proper status by using the Connected Components Workbench software. 4 Press and release the Reset button on the 440C-CR30 safety relay. The 440C-CR30 relay must not respond. Monitor the status indicator LEDs for proper operation, and monitor the 440C- CR30 relay for proper status by using Connected Components Workbench software. 5 Replace the connection at P1_00. Cycle power to the 440C-CR30 relay. Press the Reset button on the 440C-CR30 relay. The 440C- CR30 relay outputs must energize. Press and release the external Start button. Confi rm that the motor starts and that the machine begins to operate. 6 Repeat steps 1 through 5 using the K2 feedback connection at terminal P1_01. 134 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Application Examples Verifi cation of the Confi guration The system must verify the confi guration of each individual application by using the Verify command. If the 440C-CR30 confi guration safety relay is not verifi ed, it will fault after 24 hours of operation. ATTENTION: The verifi cation process should be documented in the safety system’s technical fi le. Follow these steps to download and verify the confi guration. 1. Make sure the 440C-CR30 relay is powered up and connected to your workstation via the USB cable. 2. Confi rm that the upper right-hand corner of the Connected Components Workbench Project tab shows that the 440C-CR30 relay is connected. If it is not, click Connect to Device to establish the software connection. 3.Click Verify. 135 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery 4. Answer all the questions and check each box, if completed. Click Generate. IMPORTANT: All of the boxes must be marked in order to Generate the Verifi cation ID. 6. Click Yes to proceed with the verifi cation. 7. Click Yes to change to Run mode. 136 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Application Examples 8.Record the Safety Verifi cation ID in the machine’s documentation. This process is the feedback to the 440C-CR30 relay that the system verifi cation and functional tests have been completed. The unique verifi cation ID can be used to check if changes have been made to a confi guration fi le. Any change to the confi guration removes the Safety Verifi cation ID. Subsequent Verify actions generate a different verifi cation ID. The Safety Verifi cation ID is displayed in Connected Components Workbench software only when you are connected to the 440C-CR30 relay. 137 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery Chapter 11: Products, Tools and Services Overview Rockwell Automation is a leading global provider of industrial power, control and information solutions, and has been supporting its customers across multiple industries, for well over 100 years. Part of its industrial automation portfolio is comprehensive machinery safety technologies, tools and services. Products and technologies for your applications Rockwell Automation has the broadest portfolio of any machinery safety solutions supplier, and can provide all three parts of a safety system (input device, logic control and fi nal power element). IINNTTEEGGRRAATTEEDD SSAAFFEETTYY SSOOLLUUTTIIOONNSS SAFETY LOGIC SAFETY INPUTS SAFETY OUTPUTS CONTROLLERS CCCOOONNNNNNEEECCCTTTIIIOOONNN SSSYYYSSSTTTEEEMMMSSS Products and technologies available include:- 138 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Products, tools and services Safety input devices • Presence-sensing safety devices Presence Sensing Safety Devices detect the location of objects or personnel near hazardous areas. These include: safety light curtains, safety laser scanners, hand detection safety sensors, pressure sensitive mats and edges • Safety interlock switches Safety Switches are designed and built to global standards for high reliability, stability, and quality. Safety switches include limit and interlock switches and emergency stop switches. • Emergency stop & trip devices Emergency Stop Switches include a range of mushroom push-button devices with positively guided contacts. Enabling switches and cable pull switches offer the emergency function across an application or are tethered to allow the operator movement within the safety application. • Operator interface Operator interface devices allow the operator to interact with the application and offer additional dedicated safety functionality. Safety logic controllers • Safety relays (Single function or Confi gurable) Safety Relays check and monitor a safety system and either allow the machine to start or execute commands to stop the machine. Single-function safety relays are the most economical solution for smaller machines where a dedicated logic device is needed to complete the safety function. Modular and confi gurable monitoring safety relays are preferred where a large and diverse number of safeguarding devices and minimal zone control are required. • Integrated safety controllers Safety PLCs bring the benefi ts of traditional PLC systems to safety applications, replacing hard-wired relay systems that are normally required to bring automated processes to a safe state. Safety PLCs allow standard and safety-related programs to reside in a single controller chassis, providing fl exibility in programming as well as a familiar and easy-to-use environment for programmers. Safety controller solutions provide open and integrated control that will help to ensure machine safety and protection of your assets. 139 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery • Safety I/O devices The Guard I/O™ Safety products provide all the advantages of traditional distributed I/O but are designed for safety systems. They reduce wiring costs and startup time for machines and cells and are available with a variety of features for both in-cabinet and on-machine applications. Safety actuators • Safety contactors and Starters ArmorStart® distributed motor controllers achieves Category 4 safety functionality while providing a safety solution integrated into your DeviceNet™ On-Machine™ safety installation. The IEC safety contactors and control relays help protect personnel from unintended machine starts and loss of the safety function. • PowerFlex® AC drives PowerFlex drives are available with safety features. The PowerFlex 525 AC drives include embedded Safe Torque-Off as a standard