- In some applications, locking the guard closed or delaying the opening of the guard is required. Devices suitable for this requirement are called guardlocking interlock switches. They are suited to machines with run down characteristics but they can also provide a signifi cant increase of protection level for most types of machines. • Non-contact Interlock Switches - these devices require no physical contact to actuate with some versions incorporating a coding function for increased resistance to tampering. • Position (Limit Switch) Interlocks - Cam operated actuation usually takes the form of a positive mode limit (or position) switch and a linear or rotary cam. It is generally used on sliding guards. • Trapped Key Interlocks - Trapped keys can perform control interlocking as well as power interlocking. With “control interlocking,” an interlock device initiates a stop command to an intermediate device, which turns off a subsequent device to disconnect the energy from the actuator. With “power interlocking,” the stop command directly interrupts the energy supply to the machine actuators. Operator Interface Devices Stop Function - In the U.S., Canada, Europe and at the international level, harmonization of standards exist with regard to the descriptions of stop categories for machines or manufacturing systems. 38 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Implementation of Protective Measures NOTE: these categories are different to the categories from ISO 13849-1. See standards NFPA79 and IEC/EN 60204-1 for further details. Stops fall into three categories: Category 0 is stopping by immediate removal of power to the machine actuators. This is considered an uncontrolled stop. With power removed, braking action requiring power will not be effective. This will allow motors to free spin and coast to a stop over an extended period of time. In other cases, material may be dropped by machine holding fi xtures, which require power to hold the material. Mechanical stopping means (brakes), not requiring power, may also be a used with a category 0 stop. The category 0 stop takes priority over category 1 or category 2 stops. Category 1 is a controlled stop with power available to the machine actuators to achieve the stop. Power is then removed from the actuators when the stop is achieved. This category of stop allows powered braking to quickly stop hazardous motion, and then power can be removed from the actuators. This type of stop may result in a faster and more controlled stop from which a restart can be quicker. NOTE: The 2016 Edition of IEC/EN 60204-1 will expand the types of Category 1 stop. Category 2 is a controlled stop with power left available to the machine actuators. A normal production stop is considered a category 2 stop. These stop categories must be applied to each stop function, where the stop function is the action taken by the safety related parts of the control system in response to an input, category 0 or 1 should be used. Stop functions must override related start functions. The selection of the stop category for each stop function must be determined by a risk assessment. Emergency Stop Function The emergency stop function must operate as either a category 0 or category 1 stop, as determined by a risk assessment. It must be initiated by a single human action. When executed, it must override all other functions and machine operating modes. The objective is to remove power as quickly as possible without creating additional hazards. Wherever there is a danger of an operator getting into trouble on a machine there must be a facility for fast access to an emergency stop device. The emergency stop device must be continuously operable and readily available. Operator panels should contain at least one emergency stop device. Additional emergency stop devices may be used at other locations as needed. Emergency Stop devices come in various forms. Push buttons and cable pull switches are examples of the more popular type devices 39 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery Until recently, hardwired electro-mechanical components were required for emergency stop circuits. Recent changes to standards such as IEC 60204-1 and NFPA 79 mean that safety PLCs and other forms of electronic logic meeting the requirements of standards like IEC61508, can be used in the emergency stop circuit. Emergency stop devices are considered complimentary safeguarding equipment. They are not considered primary safeguarding devices because they do not prevent access to a hazard nor do they detect access to a hazard. They rely on human interaction. For further information on emergency stop devices, read ISO/EN13850, IEC 60947- 5-5, NFPA79 and IEC60204-1, AS4024.1, Z432-94. Emergency Stop Push Buttons When a push button is used as an emergency stop device, it must be mushroom shaped, red coloured and with a yellow background. When the emergency stop device is actuated, it must latch in and it must not be possible to generate the stop command without latching in. The resetting of the emergency stop device must not cause a hazardous situation. A separate and deliberate action must be used to re- start the machine. One of the latest technologies to be applied to emergency stops is a self-monitoring technique. An additional contact is added to the back estop that monitors whether the back of the panel components are still present. This is known as a self- monitoring contact block. It consists of a spring actuated contact that closes when the contact block is snapped into place onto the panel. Cable Pull Switches For machinery such as conveyors, it is often more convenient and effective to use a cable pull device along the hazard area as the emergency stop device. These devices use a steel wire rope connected to latching pull switches so that pulling on the rope in any direction at any point along its length will trip the switch and cut off the machine power. The cable pull switches must detect both a pull on the cable as well as when the cable goes slack. Slack detection monitors that the cable has not been cut and is ready for