wiring costs as the input devices are daisy- chained. Assume a short circuit fault occurs across one of the contacts at Sw2 as shown. Can this fault be detected? If switch Sw1 (or Sw3) is opened, both Ch1 and Ch2 are open circuit and the MSR removes power from the hazard. If Sw3 is then opened and then closed again the fault across its contacts will not be detected because there is no change of status at the MSR: both Ch1 and Ch2 remain open. If Sw1 (or Sw3) is then closed, the 102 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety-Related Control Systems, Additional Considerations hazard can be restarted by pressing the start button. Under these circumstances the fault did not cause a loss of the safety function but it was not detected, it remains in the system and a subsequent fault (a short circuit across the second contact of Sw2) could lead to the loss of the safety function. If Sw2 alone was opened and closed, with no operation of the other switches, Ch1 opens and Ch2 remains closed. The MSR de-energizes the hazard because Ch1 opened. When Sw2 closes, the motor cannot be started when the Start button is pressed, because Ch2 did not open. The fault is detected. However if for any reason, Sw1 (or Sw3) is then opened and closed, both Ch1 and Ch2 will be open then closed circuit. This sequence simulates the clearing of the fault and will result in unintentional reset at the MSR. This raises the question of what DC could be claimed for the individual switches within this structure when using (EN) ISO 13849-1 or IEC 62061? Up until the publication of ISO TR 24119 (November 2015: Evaluation of fault masking serial connection of interlocking devices associated with guards with potential free contacts) there was no specifi c defi nitive guidance on this but it was usual to assume a DC of 60% under the condition that the switches are individually tested at suitable periods to reveal faults. If it was foreseeable that one (or more) of the switches would never be individually tested then it could be argued that its DC should be described as zero. ISO TR 24119 provides detailed guidance for the determination of DC for guard interlocking devices using series connected volt-free contacts. The following Table provides a basic overview. It is essential to study the document in full in order to determine the actual maximum allowable DC for any particular architecture and application. Number of Number of Masking Diagnostic Maximum frequently additional probability Coverage Achievable used movable PL movable guards guards1 0 2 to 4 Low Medium PL d 5 to 30 Medium Low PL d >30 High None PL c 1 1 Low Medium PL d 2 to 4 Medium Low PL d ≥5 High None PL c >1 -- High None PL c 1 Switching frequency greater than once per hour 103 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery The series connection of electro-mechanical contacts is limited to a maximum of PLd and in some cases can be constrained to a maximum of PLc. Note that in any case, if it is foreseeable that fault masking will occur (e.g. multiple movable guards will be open at the same time as part of normal operation or service), then the DC is limited to none. It is interesting to note that these characteristics of a Category 3 structure have always required consideration but they are brought into sharp focus by the functional safety standards. Category 4 Like Category 3, Category 4 requires the safety system to meet Category B, use well tried safety principles and perform the safety function in the presence of a single fault. Unlike Category 3 where an accumulation of faults can lead to the loss of the safety function, Category 4 requires performance of the safety function in the presence of an accumulation of faults. In practice this is usually achieved by having a high level of diagnostics to ensure that all relevant faults are detected before any accumulation is possible. When considering a theoretical accumulation of faults, 2 faults may be suffi cient, although 3 fault consideration may be necessary for some designs. Wiring Wiring Input Logic Output Mandatory Monitorng for Fault Detection Wiring Input Logic Output Wiring Shown here is the block diagram for Category 4. Monitoring of both output devices and cross monitoring is required. Category 4 has a higher diagnostic coverage than Category 3. 104 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety-Related Control Systems, Additional Considerations +V SCP K1 L1 L2 L3 Aux Ch1 K2 SCP Start Aux Stop K1 Monitoring Ch1 K2 Safety Relay Ch2 Guard OP Closed Tongue Switches Ch2 TS K1 K2 TS Motor (Hazard) Gnd Contactors Category 4 with redundant Tongue Interlock Switches Up until relatively recently, single tongue actuated interlock switches with two electrical channels have been considered for use in Category 4 circuits. In order to use a single tongue interlock in a dual channel circuit it is necessary to exclude the possible single fault failure points on the mechanical actuation tongue and switch linkage. However, the Joint Technical Report ISO TR 23849 has clarifi ed that this type of fault exclusion should not be used in PLe or SIL 3 systems. If the safety system designer prefers using tongue style interlocks, then two separate switches can be used to meet Category 4. 105 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK completed machinery must not be put into service until the fi nal machinery into which it is to be incorporated has been declared in conformity with the provisions of this Directive, where appropriate; • The place and date of the declaration; • The identity and signature of the person empowered to draw up the declaration on behalf of the manufacturer or the authorized representative. Machinery Supplied from Outside the EU - Authorized Representatives If a manufacturer based outside the EU (or EEA) exports machinery into the EU they will need to appoint an Authorized Representative. An Authorized Representative means any