the law where compliance has not been achieved voluntarily. Within the Act there is regulation 851, Section 7 that defi nes the Pre-Start Health and Safety review. This review is a requirement within Ontario for any new, rebuilt or modifi ed piece of machinery and a report needs to be generated by a professional engineer. 17 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery Chapter 2: Standards This section covers some of the typical international and national standards that are relevant to machinery safety. It is not intended to form an exhaustive list but rather to give an insight on what machinery safety issues are the subject of standardization. This section should be read in conjunction with the Regulation section. The countries of the world are working towards global harmonization of standards. This is especially evident in the area of machine safety. Global safety standards for machinery are governed by two organizations: ISO and IEC. Regional and country standards are still in existence and continue to support local requirements but in many countries there has been a move toward using the international standards produced by ISO and IEC. For example, the EN (European Norm) standards are used throughout the EEA countries. All new EN standards are aligned with, and in most cases have identical text with ISO and IEC standards. Also the US now often references IEC and ISO standards. IEC covers electrotechnical issues and ISO covers all other issues. Most industrialized countries are members of IEC and ISO. Machinery safety standards are written by working groups comprised of experts from many of the world’s industrialized counties. In most countries standards can be regarded as voluntary whereas regulations are legally mandatory. However standards are usually used as the practical interpretation of the regulations. Therefore the worlds of standards and regulations are closely interlinked. ISO (International Organization for Standardization) ISO is a non-governmental organization comprised of the national standards bodies of most of the countries of the world (157 countries at the time of this printing). A Central Secretariat, located in Geneva, Switzerland, coordinates the system. ISO generates standards for designing, manufacturing and using machinery more effi ciently, safer and cleaner. The standards also make trade between countries easier and fairer. ISO standards can be identifi ed by the three letters ISO. The ISO machine standards are organized in the same fashion as the EN standards, three levels: Type A, B and C (see the later section on EN Harmonized European Standards). For more information, visit the ISO website: www.iso.org. 18 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Standards IEC (International Electrotechnical Commission) The IEC prepares and publishes international standards for electrical, electronic and related technologies. Through its members, the IEC promotes international cooperation on all questions of electrotechnical standardization and related matters, such as the assessment of conformity to electrotechnical standards. For more information, visit the IEC website: www.iec.ch EN Harmonized European Standards These standards are common to all EEA countries and are produced by the European Standardization Organizations CEN and CENELEC. Their use is voluntary but designing and manufacturing equipment to them is the most direct way of demonstrating compliance with the EHSRs of the Machinery Directive. They are divided into 3 types: A, B and C standards. Type A. STANDARDS: Cover aspects applicable to all types of machines. Type B. STANDARDS: Subdivided into 2 groups. Type B1 STANDARDS: Cover particular safety and ergonomic aspects of machinery. Type B2 STANDARDS: Cover safety components and protective devices. Type C. STANDARDS: Cover specifi c types or groups of machines. It is important to note that complying with a C Standard gives automatic presumption of conformity with the EHSRs covered by that standard. In the absence of a suitable C Standard, A and B Standards can be used as part or full proof of EHSR conformity by pointing to compliance with relevant sections. Agreements have been reached for cooperation between CEN/CENELEC and bodies such as ISO and IEC. This should ultimately result in common worldwide standards. In most cases an EN Standard has a counterpart in IEC or ISO. In general the two texts will be the same and any regional differences will be given in the forward of the standard. For a complete list of EN Machinery Safety standards go to: http://ec.europa.eu/growth/single-market/european-standards/ 19 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery U.S. Standards OSHA Standards Where possible, OSHA promulgates national consensus standards or established Federal standards as safety standards. The mandatory provisions (e.g., the word shall implies mandatory) of the standards, incorporated by reference, have the same force and effects as the standards listed in Part 1910. For example, the national consensus standard NFPA 70 is listed as a reference document in Appendix A of Subpart S-Electrical of Part 1910 of 29 CFR. NFPA 70 is a voluntary standard, which was developed by the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA). NFPA 70 is also known as the National Electric Code (NEC). By incorporation, all the mandatory requirements in the NEC are mandatory by OSHA. ANSI Standards The American National Standards Institute (ANSI) serves as the administrator and coordinator of the United States private sector voluntary standardization system. It is a private, non profi t, membership organization supported by a diverse constituency of private and public sector organizations. ANSI, itself, does not develop standards; it facilitates the development of standards by establishing consensus among qualifi ed groups. ANSI also ensures that the guiding principles of consensus, due process and openness are followed by the qualifi ed groups. These standards are categorized as either application standards or construction standards. Application standards defi ne how to apply safeguarding to machinery. Examples include ANSI B11.1, which provides information on the use of machine guarding on power presses, and ANSI/RIA R15.06, which outlines safeguarding use for robot guarding. National Fire Protection Association The National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) was organized in 1896. Its mission is to reduce the burden of fi re on the quality of life by advocating scientifi cally based consensus codes and standards, research and education