use. Cable distance affects performance of the switch. For short distances, the safety switch is mounted on one end and a tension spring mounted at the other. For longer distances, a safety switch must be mounted at both ends of the cable to ensure that a single action by the operator initiates a stop command. The use of appropriately positioned eye bolts to support and guide the cable is essential The required cable 40 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Implementation of Protective Measures pull force should not exceed 200N (45lbs) or a distance of 400mm (15.75in) at a position centred between two eye bolts. It is important to follow the manufacturer’s instructions to achieve proper operational performance. Two-Hand Controls The use of two-hand controls (also referred to as bi-manual controls) is a common method of preventing access while a machine is in a dangerous condition. Two controls must be operated concurrently (within 0.5 s of each other) to start the machine. This ensures that both hands of the operator are occupied in a safe position (i.e., at the controls) and therefore cannot be in the hazard area. The controls must be operated continuously during the hazardous conditions. Machine operation must cease when either of the controls are released, if one control is released, the other control must also be released before the machine can be restarted. This provides “anti-tie down” and prevents the two hand action from being manipulated into a one hand action. A two-hand control system depends heavily on the integrity of its control and monitoring system to detect any faults, so it is important that this aspect is designed to the correct specifi cation. Performance of the two-hand safety system is characterized into Types by ISO 13851 (EN 574) as shown and they are related to the Categories from ISO 13849-1. The types most commonly used for machinery safety are IIIB and IIIC. The table below shows the relationship of the types to the categories of safety performance. Types Requirements III I II A B C Synchronous actuation X X X Use of Category 1 (from ISO 13849-1) X X Use of Category 3 (from ISO 13849-1) X X Use of Category 4 (from ISO 13849-1) X Table of requirements from ISO 13851 The physical design spacing should prevent improper operation (e.g., by hand and elbow). This can be accomplished by distance or shields. The machine should not go from one cycle to another without the releasing and pressing of both buttons. This provides “anti-repeat” and prevents the possibility of both buttons being blocked, leaving the machine running continuously. Releasing of either button must cause the machine to stop. 41 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery The use of two-hand control should be considered with caution as it usually leaves some form of risk exposed. The two-hand control only protects the person using them. The protected operator must be able to observe all access prevent any hazards. Where this is not possible (2) Additional Protection Devices, e.g., Guards with interlocked access points, non-material barriers such as light curtains, sensing mats etc. should be used. Any residual risk which cannot be dealt with by the above methods must be contained by (3) Personal Protective Equipment and/ or Training. The machine supplier must specify what is appropriate. Suitable materials should be used for construction and operation. Adequate lighting and handling facilities should be provided. Controls and control systems must be safe and reliable. Machines must not be capable of starting up unexpectedly and should have one or more emergency stop devices fi tted. Consideration must be given to complex installations where processes upstream or downstream can affect the safety of a machine. Failure of a power supply or control circuit must not lead to a dangerous situation. Machines must be stable and capable of withstanding foreseeable stresses. They must have no exposed edges or surfaces likely to cause injury. Guards or protection devices must be used to protect risks such as moving parts. These must be of robust construction and diffi cult to bypass. Fixed guards must be mounted by methods that can only be removed with tools, and the fi xings should be captive. Movable guards should be interlocked. Adjustable guards should be readily adjustable without the use of tools. 4 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Regulations Electrical and other energy supply hazards including stored energy, must be prevented. There must be minimal risk of injury from temperature, explosion, noise, vibration, dust, gases or radiation. There must be proper provisions for maintenance and servicing. Suffi cient indication and warning devices must be provided. Machinery shall be provided with instructions for safe installation, use, adjustment etc. Conformity Assessment The designer or other responsible body must be able to to the hazard, as other personnel may not be protected. ISO 13851 (EN574) provides additional guidance on two-hand control. Enabling Devices Enabling devices are controls that are sometimes part of a permissive strategy to allow an operator to enter a hazard area with the hazard motor running at safe speed and only while the operator is holding the enabling device in the actuated position. Enabling devices use either two-position or three position types of switches. Two position types are off when the actuator is not operated, and are on when the actuator is operated. Three position switches are off when not actuated (position 1), on when held in the centre position (position 2) and off when the actuator is operated past the mid position (position 3). In addition, when returning from position 3 to 1, the output circuit must not close when passing through position 2. Enabling devices must be used in conjunction with other safety related functions. A typical example is placing the motion is in a controlled safe slow mode. When using an enabling device, a signal must indicate that the enabling device is active. Logic Devices Logic devices play the central role of the safety related part of the control system. Logic devices perform the checking and monitoring of