area from hazards such as those created by the point of operation, ingoing nip points, rotating parts, fl ying chips and sparks. Guards shall be affi xed to the machine where possible and secured elsewhere if for any reason attachment to the machine is not possible. The guard shall be such that it does not offer an accident hazard in itself. It must also require a tool for removal, is such an event that the guard needs removing. 15 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery The “point of operation” is the area on a machine where work is actually performed upon the material being processed. The point of operation of a machine, whose operation exposes an employee to injury, shall be guarded. The guarding device shall be in conformity with any appropriate standards or, in the absence of applicable specifi c standards, shall be so designed and constructed as to prevent the operator from having any part of his body in the danger zone during the operating cycle. Subpart S (1910.399) states the OSHA electrical requirements. An installation or equipment is acceptable to the Assistant Secretary of Labor, and approved within the meaning of this Subpart S if it is accepted, certifi ed, listed, labelled, or otherwise determined to be safe by a nationally recognized testing laboratory (NRTL). What is Equipment? A general term including material, fi ttings, devices, appliances, fi xtures, apparatus, and the like, used as a part of, or in connection with, an electrical installation. What is “Listed”? Equipment is “listed” if it is of a kind mentioned in a list which, (a)is published by a nationally recognized testing laboratory (NRTL) which makes periodic inspection of the production of such equipment, and (b) states such equipment meets nationally recognized standards or has been tested and found safe for use in a specifi ed manner. As of August 2009, the following companies are recognized by OSHA as NRTLs: • Canadian Standards Association (CSA) • Communication Certifi cation Laboratory, Inc. (CCL) • Curtis-Straus LLC (CSL) • FM Approvals LLC (FM) • Intertek Testing Services NA, Inc. (ITSNA) • MET Laboratories, Inc. (MET) • NSF International (NSF) • National Technical Systems, Inc. (NTS) • SGS U.S. Testing Company, Inc. (SGSUS) • Southwest Research Institute (SWRI) • TUV America, Inc. (TUVAM) • TUV Product Services GmbH (TUVPSG) • TUV Rheinland of North America, Inc. (TUV) • Underwriters Laboratories Inc. (UL) • Wyle Laboratories, Inc. (WL) The Authority Having Jurisdiction (AHJ) has the fi nal say on what is required. For example some states like NY, CA and IL have additional requirements. 16 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Regulations Some states have adopted their own local OSHAs and may have additional requirements to the US/Federal OSHA requirements. Twenty-four states, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands have OSHA-approved State Plans and have adopted their own standards and enforcement policies. For the most part, these States adopt standards that are identical to Federal OSHA. However, some States have adopted different standards applicable to this topic or may have different enforcement policies. Employers must report incident history to OSHA. OSHA compiles incident rates and transmits the information to local offi ces, and uses this information to prioritize inspections. The key inspection drivers are: • Imminent Danger • Catastrophes and Fatalities • Employee Complaints • High Hazardous Industries • Local Planned Inspections • Follow-up Inspections • National and Local Focus Programs Violations of OSHA standards can result in fi nes. The schedule of fi nes is: • Serious: up to $7000 per violation Dangerous Failure (PFH), Proof Test D Interval, Safe Failure Fraction (SFF), Systematic Failure Chapter 9 Safety-Related Control Systems, Additional Considerations 98 Overview, Categories of Control Systems, Undetected Faults, Component and System Ratings, Fault Considerations, Fault Exclusions, Stop Categories According to IEC/EN 60204-1 and NFPA 79, U.S. Safety Control System Requirements, Robot Standards: U.S. and Canada Chapter 10 Application Examples 110 Application example of how you could use SISTEMA Performance Level Calculator tool with Rockwell Automation SISTEMA product library. Chapter 11 Products, tools and services 138 Products, technologies, tools and services available from Rockwell Automation. 1 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery Chapter 1: Regulations EU Directives and Legislation The purpose of this section is to act as a guide for anyone concerned with machine safety especially guarding and protective systems in the European Union. It is intended for designers and users of industrial equipment. In order to promote the concept of an open market within the European Economic Area (EEA) (which comprises all EU Member States plus three other countries) all member states are obliged to enact legislation that defi nes essential safety requirements for machinery and its use. Machinery that does not meet these requirements cannot be supplied into or within EEA countries. There are several European Directives that can apply to the safety of industrial machinery and equipment but the two that are of the most direct relevance are: 1 The Machinery Directive 2 The Use of Work Equipment by Workers at Work Directive These two Directives are directly related as the Essential Health and Safety Requirements (EHSRs) from the Machinery Directive can be used to confi rm the safety of equipment in the Use of Work Equipment Directive. This section deals with aspects of both directives and it is strongly recommended that anyone concerned • Other than Serious: discretionary but not more than $7000 • Repeat: up to $70,000 per violation • Wilful: up to $70,000 per violation • Violations resulting in death: further penalties • Failure to abate: $7000/day Canadian Regulations In Canada, Industrial Safety is governed at the Provincial level. Each province has its own regulations that are maintained and enforced. For example, Ontario established the Occupational Health and Safety Act, which sets out the rights and duties of all parties in the workplace. Its main purpose is to protect workers against health and safety hazards on the job. The Act establishes procedures for dealing with workplace hazards, and it provides for enforcement of