channel subsystem. If the PFH of a two channel subsystem is known, it can simply D be entered directly in to SISTEMA MTTF of a Single Channel D This represents the average mean time before the occurrence of a failure that could lead to the failure of the safety function. It is expressed in years. It is an average value of the MTTF ’s of the “blocks” of each channel and can be applied to either a D system or a subsystem. The standard gives the following formula which is used to calculate the average of all the MTTF ’s of each element used in a single channel D or subsystem. At this stage the value of SISTEMA becomes apparent. Users are spared time consuming consultation of tables and calculation of formulae since these tasks are performed by the software. The fi nal results can be printed out in the form of a multiple page report. 1 Ñ 1 Ñ nj =Σ =Σ MTTF MTTF MTTF d i=1 di j=1 dj Formula D1 from (EN) ISO 13849-1 In most dual channel systems both channels are identical therefore the result of the formula represents either channel. If the system/subsystem channels are different the standard provides a formula to cater for this. 2 1 MTTF = MTTF +MTTF d 3 dC1 dC2 1 1 + MTTF MTTF dC1 dC2 This, in effect, averages the two averages. In the cause of simplifi cation it is also allowable to just use the worst case channel value. 77 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery The standard groups the MTTF into three ranges as follows:- D Denotation of MTTF of each Range of MTTF of each channel D D channel Low 3 years <= MTTF < 10 years D Medium 10 years <= MTTF < 30 years D High 30 years <= MTTF < 100 years D Levels of MTTF D Note that (EN) ISO 13849-1 limits the usable MTTF of a single channel of a D subsystem to a maximum of 100 years even though the actual values derived may be much higher As we will see later, the achieved range of MTTF average is then combined D with the designated architecture Category and the diagnostic coverage [DC] to provide a preliminary PL rating. The term preliminary is used here because other requirements including systematic integrity and measures against common cause failure still have to be met where relevant. Methods of Data Determination We now need to delve one stage deeper into how a manufacturer determines the data either in the form of PFH or MTTF . An understanding of this is essential D D when dealing with manufacturers data. Components can be grouped into three basic types: • Mechanistic (Electro-mechanical, mechanical, pneumatic, hydraulic etc) • Electronic (i.e. solid state) • Software There is a fundamental difference between the common failure mechanisms of these three technology types. In basic form it can be summarised as follows:- Mechanistic Technology: Failure is proportional to both the inherent reliability and the usage rate. The greater the usage rate, the more likely that one of the component parts may be degraded and fail. Note that this is not the only failure cause, but unless we limit the operation time/cycles it will be the predominant one. It is self evident that a contactor that has switching cycle of once per ten seconds will operate reliably for a far shorter time than an identical contactor that operates one per day. 78 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 System Design According to (EN) ISO 13849 Physical technology devices generally comprise components that are individually designed for their specifi c use. The components are shaped, moulded, cast, machined etc. They are combined with linkages, springs, magnets, electrical windings etc to form a mechanism. Because the component parts do not, in general, have any history of use in other applications, we cannot fi nd any pre- existing reliability data for them. The estimation of the PFH or MTTF for the D D mechanism is normally based on testing. Both EN/IEC 62061 and (EN) ISO 13849-1 advocate a test process known as B10 Testing. D In the B10 test a number of device samples [usually at least ten] are tested under D suitably representative conditions. The mean number of operating cycles achieved before 10% of the samples fail to the dangerous condition is known as the B10d value. In practice it is often the case that all of the samples will fail to a safe state but in that case the standard states that the B10d [dangerous] value can be taken as twice the B10 value. Electronic Technology: There is no physical wear related to moving parts. Given an operating environment commensurate with the specifi ed electrical and temperature characteristics, the predominant failure of an electronic circuit is proportional to the inherent reliability of its constituent components [or lack off it]. There are many reasons for individual component failure; imperfection introduced during manufacture, excessive power surges, mechanical connection problems etc. In general, faults in electronic components can be caused by loading, time and temperature but are diffi cult to predict by analysis and they appear to be random in nature. Therefore testing of an electronic device in test laboratory conditions will not necessarily reveal typical long term failure patterns. In order to determine the reliability of electronic devices it is usual to use analysis and calculation. We can fi nd good data for the individual components in reliability data handbooks. We can use analysis to determine which component failure modes are dangerous. It is acceptable and usual to average out the component failure modes as 50% safe and 50% dangerous. This normally results in relatively conservative data. IEC 61508 provides formulae that can be used to calculate the overall probability of dangerous failure [PFH or PFD] of the device i.e. the subsystem. The formulae are quite complex and take into account [where applicable] component reliability, potential for common cause failure [beta factor], diagnostic coverage [DC],