landing doors; (b) d evices to prevent the load-carrying unit from falling or unchecked upwards movement; (c) overspeed limitation devices; (d) e nergy-accumulating shock absorbers, non-linear or with damping of the return movement; The Machinery Key Dates Re-ordering of Substantial Compliance Route/ OEM - Call to Action Further 14 Regulation (EU) PG 3 the annexes Modifications Fines & Penalties PG 11 Information PG 2 PG 4 PG 9 PG 10 PG 12 DISCLAIMER This ebook presents the Rockwell Automation perspective on the latest EU Machinery Regulation. It offers insights based on our current understanding and interpretation, in line with the current regulation status. Any actions taken based on this content are at your own risk. We recommend seeking and conducting further research to validate and supplement the information provided herein. Connect with us. Allen-Bradley and expanding human possibility are trademarks of Rockwell Automation, Inc. Trademarks not belonging to Rockwell Automation are property of their respective companies. Publication OEM-SP123A-EN-P - August 2024 Copyright © 2024 Rockwell Automation, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Printed in USA. transition to (EU) 2023/1230 in the provide data and states that assesses the (EU) 2023/1230 for private Official Journal. information related to effectiveness of Articles companies the application date of 20 January machinery and related 6(4) and (5) products, including JULY 2023 2027. This date is the same for all whether specific events OCTOBER 2026 Regulation (EU) 2023/1230 have occurred. EU and EFTA countries; and being enters into force. Member States must notify the European Commission a regulation and not a directive of their penalty rules and measures. means it will be adopted at the same time with no modification. After 20 January 2027, all machinery BEFORE 20TH JANUARY 2027 and related products will need to meet the requirements of the new Machines must comply with the requirements of Directive 2006/42/EC; it will not be possible to issue declarations of regulation before being placed on conformity to Regulation (EU) 2023/1230. the market. AFTER 20TH JANUARY 2027 The key changes to the new Machines must comply with the requirements of machinery regulation include a Regulation (EU) 2023/1230 and be accompanied by an EU Declaration of Conformity under that regulation. reordering of the annexes from the current machinery directive 2006/42/EC, a focus on changing technologies, and the threat from It is the first regulation to tie together cybersecurity breaches. machinery safety and cybersecurity. The Machinery Key Dates Re-ordering of Substantial Compliance Route/ OEM - Call to Action Further 3 Regulation (EU) PG 3 the annexes Modifications Fines & Penalties PG 11 Information PG 2 PG 4 PG 9 PG 10 PG 12 Re-ordering of the annexes The annexes have been re-ordered to provide a better flow, with the essential health and safety regulations (EHSRs) moving to Annex III, and the requirements for categories of machines and products, and the indicative list of safety components moving to Annex I &II. Annex IV details the requirements for any technical documentation needed to support compliance with the regulations, with Annex V providing the details for either a declaration of conformity or declaration of incorporation. Annex VI to Annex IX provide support for the compliance route to follow for the machinery or related product being manufactured. The Machinery Key Dates Re-ordering of Substantial Compliance Route/ OEM - Call to Action Further 4 Regulation (EU) PG 3 the annexes Modifications Fines & Penalties PG 11 Information PG 2 PG 4 PG 9 PG 10 PG 12 Categories of machinery or related products As mentioned previously, the annexes have been reordered to provide better flow. Annex I now covers - Categories of machines or related products and has been split into Part A and Part B. • PART A includes the addition of safety components and Annex I embedded safety systems with fully or partially self-evolving behaviour using machine learning approaches ensuring safety functions, a nod towards future solutions that may use AI technology. • PART B covers the majority of the current Annex IV machines in 2006/42/EC of the current machinery directive, with the exception of removable mechanical transmission devices, including their guards, guards for removable mechanical transmission devices, vehicle servicing lifts, and portable cartridge-operated fixing and other impact machinery, which are included in PART A. (see bibliography for Annex I categories of machinery or related products) The Machinery Key Dates Re-ordering of Substantial Compliance Route/ OEM - Call to Action Further 55 Regulation (EU) PG 3 the annexes Modifications Fines & Penalties PG 11 Information PG 2 PG 4 PG 9 PG 10 PG 12 Indicative list of safety components It also includes and covers the aspects for components and embedded safety systems using fully or partially self-evolving Annex II behavior using machine learning approaches ensuring safety functions. The other addition in Annex II is filtration systems intended for integration into machinery cabins, in order to protect operators or other persons against hazardous materials and substances, including pesticides. It also covers filters for such filtration systems. (see bibliography for Annex I categories of machinery or related products) The Machinery Key Dates Re-ordering of Substantial Compliance Route/ OEM - Call to Action Further 66 Regulation (EU) PG 3 the annexes Modifications Fines & Penalties PG 11 Information PG 2 PG 4 PG 9 PG 10 PG 12 Essential health and safety requirements (EHSRs) This Annex has seen a number of significant additions including: Ergonomics (Clause 1.1.6) gives consideration to how operators interact with machinery or related products that have either fully or partially self-evolving behavior. Autonomous mobile machinery (Clause 3.6.3.3) gains extra requirements, which are included in annex III and the supplementary essential health and safety requirements to offset risks due to the mobility of machinery or related products. Protection against corruption (Clause 1.1.9) introduces cyber security requirements related to OT (Operational Technology) and has been added to cover the increase in industrial networks for safety systems, and also the generation of data to support Annex III the growth of connected enterprise solutions. It covers both hardware and software requirements. Machinery needs to ensure