two failures, one in each channel before the subsystem, and therefore the system, fails. Clearly a dual channel system is less likely to fail to a dangerous condition than a single channel system. But we can make it even more reliable [in terms of its safety function] if we include diagnostic measures for fault detection. Of course, having detected the fault we also need to react to it and put the system into a safe state. The following diagram shows the inclusion of diagnostic measures achieved by monitoring techniques. 71 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery Input Logic Output Subsystem Subsystem Subsystem Monitoring Monitoring Monitoring Limit Switch 440C-CR30 Safety Contactor Diagnostics with a dual channel safety system It is usually [but not always] the case that the system comprises two channels in all its subsystems. Therefore we can see that, in this case each subsystem has two “sub channels”. The standard describes these as “blocks”. A two channel subsystem will have a minimum of two blocks and a single channel subsystem will have a minimum of one block. It is possible that some systems will comprise a combination of dual channel and single channel blocks. If we want to investigate the system in more depth we need to look at the components parts of the blocks. The SISTEMA tool uses the term “elements” for these component parts. Input Subsystem 72 1 LENNAHC 2 LENNAHC Element Monitoring Monitoring Limit Switch 440C-CR30 gnirotinoM Logic Output Element Subsystem Subsystem Block Linkage Contacts Linkage Contacts Block Safety Contactor Element Element Diagnostics Diagnostics Subdivided system with diagnostics with a dual channel safety system MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 System Design According to (EN) ISO 13849 The limit switches subsystem is shown subdivided down to its element level. The output contactor subsystem is subdivided down to its block level. The logic subsystem is not subdivided because it is already qualifi ed and validated by the manufacturer to a given PL. The monitoring function for both the limit switches and the contactors is performed by the logic controller. Therefore the boxes representing the limit switch and contactor subsystems have a small overlap with the logic subsystem box. This principle of system subdivision can be recognised in the methodology given in (EN) ISO 13849-1 and in the basic system structure principle for the SISTEMA tool. However it is important to note that there are some subtle differences. The standard is not restrictive in its methodology, but for the simplifi ed method for estimating the PL the usual fi rst step is to break the complete system into channels and then into the blocks within each channel. With SISTEMA it is usually more convenient to divide the system into subsystems and then each subsystem into blocks. The standard does not explicitly describe a subsystem concept but its use as given in SISTEMA provides a more understandable and intuitive approach. Of course there is no effect on the fi nal calculation. SISTEMA and the standard both use the same principles and formulae. It is also interesting to note that the subsystem approach is also used in EN/IEC 62061. The system we have been using as an example is just one of the fi ve basic types of system architectures that the standard designates. Anyone familiar with the Categories system will recognise our example as representative of either Category 3 or 4. The standard uses the fi ve original Categories from the former EN 954. It calls them Designated Architecture Categories. The requirements for the Categories are almost [but not quite] identical to those given in EN 954-1. The Designated Architecture Categories are represented by the following fi gures. It is important to note that they can be applied either to a complete system or a subsystem. The diagrams should not necessarily be regarded as a physical structure, they are intended more as a graphical representation of conceptual requirements. Input Logic Output Device Device Designated Architecture Category B Designated Architecture Category B must use basic safety principles [see annex of (EN) ISO 13849-2]. The system or subsystem can fail in the event of a single fault. See (EN) ISO 13849-1 for full requirements. 73 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery Input Logic Output Device Device Designated Architecture Category 1 Designated Architecture Category 1 has the same structure as Category B and can still fail in the event of a single fault. But because it must also use well tried safety principles [see annex of (EN) ISO 13849-2] this is less likely than for Category B. See (EN) ISO 13849-1 for full requirements. Wiring Wiring Input Logic Output Device Device Monitoring Test Test Output Designated Architecture Category 2 Designated Architecture Category 2 must use basic safety principles [see annex of (EN) ISO 13849-2]. There must also be diagnostic monitoring via a functional test of the system or subsystem. This must occur at start up and then periodically with a frequency that equates to at least one hundred tests to every demand on the safety function. The 2015 amendment allows for an alternative requirement for the safety function to go to safe state before process safety time.. The system or subsystem can still fail if a single fault occurs between the functional tests but this is usually less likely than for Category 1. Note that for Category 2 used for PLd there must be two signal output devices because, in the event of a fault detection, the test output must initiate a safe state. See (EN) ISO 13849-1 for full requirements. 74 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 System Design According to (EN) ISO 13849 Wiring Wiring Input Logic Output Device Device Monitoring Cross Monitoring Wiring Wiring Input Logic Output Device Device Monitoring Designated Architecture Category 3 Designated Architecture Category 3 must use basic safety principles [see annexes of (EN) ISO 13849-2]. There is also a requirement that the system / subsystem must not fail in the event of a single fault. This means that the system needs to have single fault