the rate of all dangerous failures. Subsystem C Subsystem Subsystem element 1 element n De1 Den Diagnostic function(s) Subsystem logical architecture C 92 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 System Design According to IEC/EN 62061 λDssC = λDe1 (1-DC1)+ . . . + λDen (1-DCn) PFHDssC = ʎDssC These formulae include the diagnostic coverage, DC, for each of the subsystem elements. The failure rates of each of the subsystems are reduced by the diagnostic coverage of each subsystem. The fourth example of a subsystem architecture is shown next. This subsystem is single fault tolerant and includes a diagnostic function. The potential for common cause failure must also be considered with single fault tolerant systems. Subsystem D Subsystem element 1 λ Common De1 cause failure Diagnostic Function(s) Subsystem element 2 λ De2 Subsystem logical architecture D If the subsystem elements are the different, the following formulae are used: ʎDssD = (1 - β)2 {[ʎDe1 x ʎDe2 x (DC1+ DC2)] x T2 / 2 + [ʎDe1 x ʎDe2 x (2- DC1 - DC2)] x T1 / 2 } + β x (ʎDe1 + ʎDe2 ) / 2 PFHDssD = ʎDssD If the subsystem elements are the same, the following formulae are used: ADssD = (1 - β)2 {[λDe2 x 2 x DC] x T2 / 2 + [λDe2 x (1-DC)] x T1 }+ β x λDe PFHDssD = ʎDssD Notice that both formulas use one additional parameter, T2 the diagnostic interval. This is just a periodic check of the function. It is a less comprehensive test than the Proof Test. 93 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery As an example, assume the following values for the example where the subsystem elements are identical: β = 0.05 λDe = 1 x 10-6 failures/hour T1 = 87600 hours (10 years) T2 = 2 hours DC = 90% PFHDssD = 5.790E-8 dangerous failures per hour. This would be within the range required for SIL3 Effect of the Proof Test Interval IEC/EN 62061 states that a Proof Test Interval (PTI) of 20 years is preferred (but not mandatory) Let us look at the effect the proof test interval has on the system. If we re- calculate the formula with T1 at 20 years it gives the result PFHDssD = 6.58E- 8.It is still within the range required for SIL 3. The designer must keep in mind that this subsystem must be combined with other subsystems to calculate the overall dangerous failure rate. Effect of Common Cause Failure Analysis Let’s look at the effect the common cause failures have on the system. Suppose we take additional measures and our β (Beta) value improves to 1% (0,01), while the proof test interval remains at 20 years. The dangerous failure rate improves to 2.71E-8 which means that the subsystem is now more suitable for use in a SIL 3 system. Common Cause Failure (CCF) Common cause failure is when multiple faults resulting from a single cause produce a dangerous failure. Information on CCF will generally only be required by the subsystem designer, usually the manufacturer. It is used as part of the formulae given for estimation of the PFH of a subsystem. It will not usually be required at the D system design level. Annex F of IEC/EN62061 provides a simple approach for the estimation of CCF. The table below shows a summary of the scoring process 94 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 System Design According to IEC/EN 62061 No Measure Against CCF Score 1 Separation/Segregation 25 2 Diversity 38 3 Design/Application/Experience 2 4 Assessment/Analysis 18 5 Competence/Training 4 6 Environmental 18 Scoring for Measures Against Common Cause Failure Points are INCORPORATION should be issued with it. The CE mark should not be applied. The declaration should state that the equipment must not be put into service until the machine into which it has been incorporated has been declared in conformity. A Technical File must be prepared and the partly completed machinery must be supplied with information containing a description of the conditions which must be met with a view to correct incorporation in the fi nal machinery, so as not to compromise safety. This option is not available for equipment which can function independently or which modifi es the function of a machine. 9 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery The Declaration of Incorporation must contain the following information: • Business name and full address of the manufacturer of the partly completed machinery and, where appropriate, the authorized representative; • Name and address of the person authorized to compile the relevant technical documentation, who must be established in the Community (in the case of a manufacturer outside the EU this may be the “Authorized Representative”); • Description and identifi cation of the partly completed machinery including generic denomination, function, model, type, serial number and commercial name; • A sentence declaring which essential requirements of this Directive are applied and fulfi lled and that the relevant technical documentation is compiled in accordance with part B of Annex VII, and, where appropriate, a sentence declaring the conformity of the partly completed machinery with other relevant Directives; • An undertaking to transmit, in response to a reasoned request by the national authorities, relevant information on the partly completed machinery. This shall include the method of transmission and shall be without prejudice to the intellectual property rights of the manufacturer of the partly completed machinery; • A statement that the partly awarded for employing specifi c measures against CCF. The score is added up to determine the common cause failure factor, which is shown in the following table. The beta factor is used in the subsystem models to “adjust” the failure rate. Overall Score Common Cause failure factor (R) <35 10% (0,1) 35 - 65 5% (0,05) 65 - 85 2% (0,02) 85 - 100 1% (0,01) Beta Factor for Common Cause Failure Diagnostic Coverage (DC) Automatic diagnostic tests are employed to decrease the probability of dangerous hardware failures. Being able to detect all dangerous hardware failures would be ideal, but