Safety related control systems for machinery Stop Categories according to IEC/EN 60204-1 and NFPA 79 It is both unfortunate and confusing that the term “Category” in relation to safety related control systems has different meanings. So far we have discussed the categories that originated in EN 954-1. They are a classifi cation of the performance of a safety system under fault conditions. There is also a classifi cation known as “Stop Categories” that originated in IEC/EN 60204-1 and NFPA 79. There are three Stop Categories. Stop Category 0 requires immediate removal of power to the actuators. This is sometimes considered as an uncontrolled stop because, in some circumstances, motion can take some time to cease because the motor may be free to coast to a stop. Stop Category 1 requires that power is retained to apply braking until the stop is achieved and then remove power to the actuator. Note: See IEC 60204-1 for information on Stop Categories 1a and 1b. Stop Category 2 is a controlled stop with power left available to the machine actuators. A normal production stop is considered a category 2 stop. Note that only Stop Categories 0 or 1 can be used as emergency stops. The choice of which of the two Categories to use should be dictated by a risk assessment. All the circuit examples shown so far in this chapter have used a Stop Category 0. A Stop Category 1 is achieved with a time-delayed output for the fi nal removal of power. An interlocked guard with guardlocking often accompanies a Category 1 stop system. This keeps the guard locked in a closed position until the machine has reached a safe (i.e., stopped) state. Stopping a machine without taking proper account of the programmable controller may affect restarting and could result in tool and machine damage. A standard (non safety) PLC alone cannot be relied on for a safety related stopping task; therefore, other approaches need to be considered. Two possible solutions for category 1 stopping are given below: 1. Safety Relay with Time Delayed Override Command A safety relay with both immediate acting and delayed action outputs is used. The immediate acting outputs are connected to inputs at the programmable device (e.g., PLC or the drive “enable”) and the delayed acting outputs are connected to a main contactor. When the guard interlock switch is actuated, the immediate outputs on the safety relay switch. This signals the programmable system to carry out a correctly sequenced stop. After a sufficient time has elapsed to allow this process, 108 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety-Related Control Systems, Additional Considerations the delayed output on the safety relay switches and isolates the main contactor. Note: Any calculations to determine the overall stopping time must take the safety relay output delay period into account. This is particularly important when using this factor to determine the positioning of devices in accordance with the safety distance calculation 2. Safety PLCs The logic and timing functions required can be conveniently implemented by using a Safety PLC such as GuardLogix. U.S. Safety Control System Requirements Control Reliable The highest level of risk reduction in the U.S. and Canadian robot standards is achieved by safety related control systems meeting the requirements of Control Reliable. Control reliable safety related control systems are dual channel architectures with monitoring. The stopping function of the robot must not be prevented by any single component failure, including the monitoring function. The monitoring shall generate a stop command upon detection of a fault. If a hazard remains after motion stops, a warning signal must be provided. The safety system must remain in a safe state until the fault is corrected. Preferably, the fault is detected at the time of the failure. If this cannot be achieved, then the failure must be detected at the next demand on the safety system. Common mode failures must be taken into consideration if a signifi cant probability of such a failure can occur. The Canadian requirements differ from the U.S. requirement by adding two additional requirements. First, the safety related control systems shall be independent of the normal program control systems. Second, the safety system must not be easily defeated or bypassed without detection. Comments on Control Reliable The most fundamental aspect of Control Reliable is single fault tolerance and monitoring (fault detection). The requirements state how the safety system must respond in the presence of “a single fault,” “any single fault,” or “any single component failure.” Three very important concepts must be considered regarding faults: (1) not all faults are detected, (2) adding the word “component” raises questions about wiring, and (3) wiring is an integral part of the safety system. Wiring faults can result in the loss of a safety function. 109 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery The intent of Control Reliability is clearly the performance of the safety function in the presence of a fault. If the fault is detected, then the safety system must execute a safe action, provide notifi cation of the fault, and prevent further operation of the machine until the fault is corrected. If the fault is not detected, then the safety function must still be performed upon demand. Chapter 10: Application Examples Overview - Pre-engineered safety functions for machines Machinery safety functions – be it an emergency stop, guarding, or presence sensing function – require multiple elements including a sensor or input device, a logic device, and an output device. Together, these elements provide a level of protection calculated by Performance Level as outlined in (EN) ISO 13849-1. In this chapter we have selected one of many pre-engineered safety functions for machines that Rockwell Automation have developed. These safety function documents each provide guidance for a specifi c safety function based on functional requirement, equipment selection, and performance level requirement, including set-up and wiring, confi guration, verifi cation and validation plan, and calculation of performance level. The pre-engineered safety functions are free and are available to download on the Rockwell Automation website. www.rockwellautomation.com,