for fi re and related safety issues. The NFPA sponsors many standards to help accomplish its mission. Two very important standards related to industrial safety and safe-guarding are the National Electric Code (NEC) and Electrical Standard for Industrial Machinery. The National Fire Protection Association has acted as sponsor of the NEC since 1911. The original code document was developed in 1897 as a result of the united efforts of various insurance, electrical, architectural, and allied interests. The NEC has since been updated numerous times; it is revised about every three years. 20 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Standards Article 670 of the NEC covers some details on industrial machinery and refers the reader to the Electrical Standard for Industrial Machinery, NFPA 79. NFPA 79 applies to electrical/electronic equipment, apparatus, or systems of industrial machines. The purpose of NFPA 79 is to provide detailed information for the application of electrical/electronic equipment, apparatus, or systems supplied as part of industrial machines that will promote safety to life and property. NFPA 79, which was offi cially adopted by ANSI in 1962, is very similar in content to the standard IEC 60204-1. Machines, which are not covered by specifi c OSHA standards, are required to be free of recognized hazards which may cause death or serious injuries. These machines must be designed and maintained to meet or exceed the requirements of applicable industry standards. NFPA 79 is a standard that would apply to machines not specifi cally covered by OSHA standards. Canadian Standards CSA Standards refl ect a national consensus of producers and users - including manufactures, consumers, retailers, unions and professional organizations, and government agencies. The standards are used widely by industry and commerce and often adopted by municipal, provincial, and federal governments in their regulations, particularly in the fi elds of health, safety, building and construction, and the environment. Individuals, companies, and associations across Canada indicate their support for CSA’s standards development by volunteering their time and skills to CSA Committee work and supporting the Association’s objectives through sustaining memberships. The more than 7000 committee volunteers and the 2000 sustaining memberships together form CSA’s total membership. The Standards Council of Canada is the coordinating body of the National Standards system, a federation of independent, autonomous organizations working towards the further development and improvement of voluntary standardization in the national interest. Australian Standards Most of these standards are closely aligned with the equivalent ISO/IEC/EN standards Standards Australia Limited 286 Sussex Street, Sydney, NSW 2001 Phone: +61 2 8206 6000 Email: mail@standards.org.au - Website: www.standards.org.au 21 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery Chapter 3: Safety Strategy From a purely functional point of view the more effi ciently a machine performs its task of processing material then the better it is. But, in order for a machine to be viable it must also be safe. Indeed safety must be regarded as a prime consideration. In order to devise a proper safety strategy there must be two key steps, which work together as shown below. RISK ASSESSMENT Identify all machines within the workplace—Then for each machine Consult relevant information and expertise MACHINE LIMITS NO Can you foresee all possible operation and use of the machine YES HAZARD IDENTIFICATION Identify each hazard situation— Then for each hazard RISK ESTIMATION Estimate the level of risk due to the hazard RISK REDUCTION Address the hazard by a RISK EVALUATION NO process of re-design or Is the level of risk additional measures acceptable Determine whether the performance and functional Have any safety measures been analyzed and NO characteristics of the safety measure are suitable for the proven adequate? machine and its type of use YES END OF SAFETY STRATEGY PROCESS 22 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety Strategy RISK ASSESSMENT based on a clear understanding of the machine limits and functions and the tasks that may be required to be performed at the machine throughout its life. RISK REDUCTION is then performed if necessary and safety measures are selected based on the information derived from the risk assessment stage. The manner in which this is done is the basis of the SAFETY STRATEGY for the machine. Following this a systematic approach ensures that all aspects are considered, and that the overriding principle does not become lost in the detail. The whole process should be documented. Not only will this ensure a more thorough job, but it will also make the results available for checking by other parties. This section applies both to machine manufacturers and to machine users. The manufacturer needs to ensure that his machine is capable of being used safely. The risk assessment should be started at the machine design phase and it should take account of all the foreseeable tasks that will need to be performed on the machine. This task based approach at the early iterations of the risk assessment is very important. For example, there may be a regular need for adjustment of moving parts at the machine. At the design phase it should be possible to design in measures that will allow this process to be carried out safely. If it is missed at the early stage it may be diffi cult or impossible to implement at later stage. The result could be that the adjustment of moving parts still has to be performed but must be done in a manner that is either unsafe or ineffi cient (or both). A machine on which all tasks have been taken account of during the risk assessment will be a safer machine and a more effi cient machine. The user (or employer) needs to ensure that the machines in their working environment are safe. Even if a machine has been declared safe by the manufacturer, the machine user should still perform a risk assessment to determine whether the equipment is safe in their environment. Machines are often used in circumstances unforeseen by the manufacturer. For example, a milling machine used in a school workshop will need additional considerations to one that is used in an industrial tool