feature. Safe Torque-Off is an optional feature for the PowerFlex 40P, 70, 700H, 700S, and 750-Series AC drives, which also support Safe Speed Monitor functionality. • Kinetix® integrated motion Kinetix 300, 6000, 6200, 6500 and 7000 servo drives all feature built-in safety functionality. With Safe Torque-Off, a drive output is disabled to remove motor torque without removing power from the entire machine. Safe Speed Monitoring permits users to reduce and monitor the speed of the application to help an operator safely perform some types of work without completely stopping the machine. Connection systems/networks • ‘Quick connect’ connection systems Guardmaster® Safety t-ports/splitters, distribution boxes, and shorting plugs are parts of a quick-disconnect system that is dedicated to machine safety. • GuardLink™ GuardLink is a safety-based communicatons protocol utilising standard cabling in a ‘trunk and drop’ topology with ‘plug and play’ connections. It enables communication of safety devices for diagnostics and control such as remote reset and lock commands over a single cable. As many as 32 devices can be connected on a cable span of up to 1,000 metres. Allen-Bradley safety devices featuring GuardLink technology give you access to safety system information and enables this information to be accessed over EtherNet/IP. GuardLink can help simplify system confi guration, reduce wiring and increase diagnostic information for maintenance and operation. 140 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Products, tools and services • Safety over EtherNet/IP The EtherNet/IP™ network provides plant-wide network systems using open, industry-standard networking technologies. It offers real-time control and information in discrete, continuous process, batch, safety, drive, motion, and high availability applications. EtherNet/IP networks connect devices such as motor starters and sensors to controllers and HMI devices and on into the wider enterprise. It supports non-industrial and industrial communications on a single, common network infrastructure. Tools to help you A wide range of tools that support compliance with safety standards, reduce the risk of injuries and improve productivity. Safety Automation Builder Safety Automation Builder is a FREE software tool to help simplify machine safety design and validation, reducing time and costs. Integration with RASWin Risk Assessment Software provides users with consistent, reliable, documented management of the Functional Safety Lifecycle. Safety Automation Builder streamlines safety system design, helping improve compliance and reduce costs by guiding users through the development of safety systems including safety system layout, product selection, and safety analysis to help meet machinery safety Performance Level (PL) requirements as outlined by global standard (EN) ISO 13849-1. RASWin RASWin software helps users manage the progression through the functional safety lifecycle, organizing information from each step of the process and machinery validation. RASWin links the steps of the safety lifecycle to avoid systematic failures, including safety function specifi cations, Performance Level requirements (PLr) assignment and PLr calculation, safety circuit validation, and documentation. SISTEMA Performance Level Calculator The SISTEMA tool, developed by the Institute for Occupational Safety and Health of the German Social Accident Insurance (IFA), automates calculation of the attained Performance Level from the safety-related parts of a machine’s control system to (EN) ISO 13849-1. Data for Rockwell Automation machinery safety products is available in the form of a library that can be used with the SISTEMA calculation tool. The combination of the two gives machinery and system designers comprehensive time-saving support in evaluating safety to (EN) ISO 13849-1. An export function from Safety Automation Builder allows the safety system design to be easily imported into SISTEMA in order to receive a third party verifi cation of the required Performance Level. 141 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery Pre-engineered Safety Functions for machines Machinery safety functions require multiple elements including a sensor or input device, a logic device, and an output device. Together, these elements provide a level of protection calculated by performance level as outlined in (EN) ISO 13849-1 Rockwell Automation has developed many safety function documents, each providing guidance for a specifi c safety function based on functional requirement, equipment selection, and performance level requirement. They including set-up and wiring, confi guration, verifi cation and validation plan, and calculation of performance level. Safety maturity Index tool The Safety Maturity Index™ is a comprehensive measurement of performance in safety culture, compliance processes and procedures, and capital investments in safety technologies. It helps companies understand their current level of performance and steps they can take to improve safety and profi tability. Services and experience to support you As the world’s largest industrial safety provider, Rockwell Automation can help to reduce injuries and costs while improving productivity at every phase of the Safety Life Cycle. Safety services are delivered by experienced staff who are safety qualifi ed; many with TÜV Rheinland Machinery Safety certifi cations. Rockwell Automation employs people who are TÜV Functional Safety Experts, Engineers and Technicians to help customers with their holistic safety lifecycle. The Safety Life Cycle is a clearly-defi ned process that helps to maximize productivity and improve safety by identifying the steps required to assess and mitigate machinery risks. The Safety Life Cycle can be seen and downloaded in this document. Some of the services available are: • Safety Assessments Services that help to evaluate plant risk and support well-informed decisions that help to improve employee and machine safety. • Design Services Comprehensive circuit design, correct application of devices and design reviews to help improve overall safety. • Installation and Validation Services Verifi cation that systems are operating within defi ned parameters and standards. 142 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Products, tools and services • Safety Training Comprehensive training programmes delivered by industry-leading experts. • Customized Services Covering client-specifi c applications, technologies, applications, platforms, and confi gurations. Why choose Rockwell Automation Integrating safety with automation can offer productivity enhancing benefi ts in many stages of the manufacturing process, from equipment design and testing, installation and commissioning, through operation and maintenance and on to modifi cation or decommissioning. All stages can be optimised through correctly applied safety solutions. As the world leader in industrial automation and safety and as a technology innovator, Rockwell Automation is ideally placed to support your