switches. Emergency stop devices and systems are associated with safety related control systems but they are not direct protective systems, they should only be regarded as complementary protective measures. Preventing Access with Fixed Enclosing Guards If the hazard is on a part of the machinery which does not require access, a guard should be permanently fi xed to the machinery. These types of guards must require tools for removal. The fi xed guards must be able to 1) withstand their operating environment, 2) contain projectiles where necessary, and 3) not create hazards by having, for example, sharp edges. Fixed guards may have openings where the guard meets the machinery or openings due to the use of a wire mesh type enclosure. Windows provide convenient ways to monitor machine performance. Care must be taken in the selection of the material used, as chemical interactions with cutting fl uids, ultra-violet rays and simple aging could cause the window materials to degrade over time. The size of the openings must prevent the operator from reaching the hazard. Table O-10 in U.S. OHSA 1910.217 (f) (4), ISO 13854, Table D-1 of ANSI changes made to the conformity assessment procedures for Annex IV equipment. Detailed information and guidance on the defi nition and all other aspects of the Machinery Directive can be found at the offi cial EU website: http://ec.europa.eu/growth/sectors/mechanical-engineering/machinery/index_en.htm The key provisions of the original Directive (98/37/EC) came into force for machinery on January 1, 1995 and for Safety Components on January 1, 1997. The provisions of the current Directive (2006/42/EC) became applicable on December 29, 2009. It is the responsibility of the manufacturer or his authorized representative to ensure that equipment supplied is in conformity with the Directive. This includes: • Ensuring that the applicable EHSRs contained in Annex I of the Directive are fulfi lled • A technical fi le is prepared • Appropriate conformity assessment is carried out • An “EC Declaration of Conformity” is given • CE Marking is affi xed where applicable • Instructions for safe use are provided 3 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery Essential Health & Safety Requirements Annex 1 of the Directive gives a list of Essential Health and Safety Requirements (referred to as EHSRs) to which machinery must comply where relevant. The purpose of this list is to ensure that the machinery is safe and is designed and constructed so that it can be used, adjusted and maintained throughout all phases of its life without putting persons at risk. The following text provides a quick overview of some Machine must meet EHSRs typical requirements but it is important to consider all of the EHSRs given in Annex 1. A risk assessment must be carried out to determine which EHSRs are applicable to the equipment under consideration. The EHSRs in Annex 1 provides a hierarchy of measures for eliminating the risk: (1)Inherently Safe Design. Where possible the design itself will B11.19, Table 3 in CSA Z432, and AS4024.1 provide guidance on the appropriate distance a specifi c opening must be from the hazard. Detecting Access Protective measures can be used to detect access to a hazard. When detection is selected as the method of risk reduction, the designer must understand that a complete safety system must be used; the safeguarding device, by itself, does not provide necessary risk reduction. This safety system generally consists of three blocks: 1) an input device that senses the access to the hazard, 2) a logic device that process the signals from the sensing device, checks the status of the safety system and turns on or off output devices, and 3) an output device that controls the actuator (for example, a motor). 34 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Implementation of Protective Measures Detection Devices Many alternative devices are available to detect the presence of a person entering or inside a hazard area. The best choice for a particular application is dependent on a number of factors. • Environmental factors that might impact the detector reliability • Frequency of access, • Stopping time of hazard, • Importance of completing the machine cycle, and • Containment of projectiles, fl uids, mists, vapours, etc. Appropriately selected movable guards can be interlocked to provide protection against projectiles, fl uids, mists and other types of hazards, and are often used when access to the hazard is infrequent. Interlocked guards can also be locked to prevent access until the machine has had time to reach a complete stop or when stopping the machine in the middle of the cycle is undesirable. Presence sensing devices, like light curtains, mats and laser scanners, provide quick and easy access to the hazard area and are often selected when operators must frequently access the hazard area. These types of devices do not provide protection against projectiles, mists, fl uids, or other types of hazards. The best choice of protective measure is a device or system that provides the maximum protection with the minimum hindrance to normal machine operation. All aspects of machine use must be considered, as experience shows that a system that is diffi cult to use is more likely to be removed or by-passed. Presence Sensing Devices IEC 62046 gives useful guidance on the application of presence sensing devices. Its use is recommended. When deciding how to protect a zone or area it is important to have a clear understanding of exactly what safety functions are required. In general there will be at least two functions. • Switch off or disable power when a person enters the hazard area. • Prevent switching on or enabling of power when a person is in the hazard area. At fi rst thought these may seem to be one and the same thing but although they are obviously linked, and are often achieved by the same equipment, they are actually two separate safety functions. To achieve the fi rst point we need to use some form of trip device. In other words a device which detects that a part of a