L3 SCP K1 Start SCP Aux Stop K1 OP Tongue Switch Guard Closed Motor (Hazard) TS K1 Contactor Gnd Simple Category 1 Safety System Category 1 is intended to prevent failure by using simple design with components with high reliability. When this type of prevention by itself does not provide enough reduction of the risk, fault detection must be used. Categories 2, 3 and 4 are failure or fault detection based, with increasingly stringent requirements to achieve higher levels of risk reduction. Category 2 In addition to meeting the requirements of Category B and using well tried safety principles, the safety system must undergo testing to meet Category 2. The tests must be designed to detect faults within the safety related parts of the control system. If no faults are detected, the machine is allowed to run. If faults are detected a fault reaction function must ensure that the machine remains in a safe state. Wiring Wiring Input Logic Output Functional test Test Test Output The equipment performing the test can be an integral part of the safety system or a separate piece of equipment. 99 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery The testing must be performed: • when the machine is initially powered, • prior to the initiation of a hazard, and. • periodically if deemed necessary by the risk assessment Note: (EN) ISO 138491-1 assumes a test to safety function demand ratio of 100:1 or a test at the demand of the safety function with the capability to detect a fault and stop the machine in a shorter time than it takes to reach the hazard. In essence a safety system or subsystem must be exercised in order to test if its safety function is still working correctly. This means it can be diffi cult or impossible to implement with technologies that have mechanical characteristics. A Category 2 approach is usually more relevant to electronic technology. For PLd there must be a test output capable of initiating a safe state in the event of the detection of a fault. Category 3 In addition to meeting the requirements of Category B and well-tried safety principles, Category 3 requires successful performance of the safety function in the presence of a single fault. The fault must be detected at or before the next demand on the safety function, whenever reasonably practicable. Some faults, such as cross-faults, which do not cause an immediate loss of safety function may not be detected. This means that for Category 3 an accumulation of undetected faults can lead to the loss of the safety function. Wiring Wiring Input Logic Output Reasonably Practical Fault Detection Wiring Input Logic Output Wiring Here is a block diagram to explain the principles of a Category 3 system. Redundancy combined with cross monitoring and output monitoring are used to ensure the performance of the safety function 100 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety-Related Control Systems, Additional Considerations +V SCP K1 L1 L2 L3 Aux K2 SCP Start Aux Ch2 Stop K1 Ch1 Monitoring Safety Ch1 K2 Relay Ch2 Guard OP Closed Tongue Switch TS K1 K2 TS Motor (Hazard) Gnd Contactors Category 3 Safety System Shown here is an example of a Category 3 system. The tongue interlock switch has redundant sets of contacts. Internally, the monitoring safety relay (MSR) contains redundant circuits that cross monitor each other. A redundant set of contactors remove power from the motor. The contactors are monitored by the MSR via the mechanically linked contacts. Fault detection must be considered for each part of the safety system. What are the failure modes of a dual channel tongue switch? What are the failure modes of the MSR? What are the failure modes of the contactors K1 and K2? What are the failure modes of the wiring? For Category 3 circuits it is common practice to use single tongue interlock switches with redundant electrical contact sets. This means that the possibility that a fault of a single component within the actuation linkage must be excluded. If this fault cannot be excluded it means that a single fault can cause the loss of the safety function. It is very important that any fault exclusion is fully justifi ed. The monitoring safety relay (MSR) provides fault diagnostics for the tongue interlock switch and for the contactors. The MSR can also facilitate other functionality such as a manual reset. In terms of their internal architecture monitoring safety relays are usually PLe or SIL3. The two contactors should have overload and short-circuit protection. The probability of the contactor failing with welded contacts is small but not impossible. A contactor can 101 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery also fail due to its power switching contacts staying closed due to a stuck armature. If one contactor fails to a dangerous state, the second contactor will still continue to function and will remove power from the motor. The MSR will detect the faulted contactor upon the next machine cycle. When the gate is closed and the start button pressed, the mechanically linked contacts of the faulted contactor will remain open and the MSR will not be able to close its safety contacts, thereby, revealing the fault Undetected Faults With a Category 3 system structure there may be some faults that cannot be detected but they must not, by themselves, lead to the loss of the safety function. Where faults can be detected we need to know if, under some circumstances, they could be either masked or unintentionally cleared by the operation of other devices within the system structure. +V SCP K1 L1 L2 L3 Aux Wiring Fault in the System Start K2 SCP Aux Sw1 Sw2 Sw3 Ch2 Stop K1 Ch1 Monitoring Ch1 K2 Safety Relay Ch2 OP TS K1 K2 TS Motor (Hazard) Gnd Contactors Series Connection of Input Devices Shown here is a widely used approach for connecting multiple devices to a monitoring safety relay. Each device contains two normally closed direct opening action contacts. This approach saves