Automation SISTEMA Data Library is available for download, together with a link to the SISTEMA download site, at: www.rockwellautomation.com, under Solutions & Services > Safety Solutions. Overview of (EN) ISO 13849-1 The following general overview is intended to provide an overview of the basic provisions of (EN) ISO 13849-1. It also includes some mention of its revision published early in 2106. It is essential that the standard itself is studied in full detail. This standard has wide applicability, as it applies to all technologies, including electrical, hydraulic, pneumatic and mechanical. Although ISO 13849-1 is applicable to complex systems, it also refers the reader to IEC 61508 for complex software embedded components. The outputs of ISO 13849-1 are Performance Levels [PL a, b, c, d or e]. The original Category concept is retained but there are additional requirements to be satisfi ed before a PL can be claimed for a system. The requirements can be listed in basic form as follows: • The architecture of the system. Essentially this captures what we have become used to as Categories 66 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 System Design According to (EN) ISO 13849 • Reliability data is required for the constituent parts of the system • The Diagnostic Coverage [DC] of the system is required. This represents the effectiveness of fault monitoring in the system • Protection against common cause failure • Protection against systematic faults • Where relevant, specifi c requirements for software Later we will take a closer look at these factors but before we do, it will be useful to consider the basic intent and principle of the whole standard. It is clear at this stage that there are additional considerations to learn but the detail will make more sense once we have understood what the standard is trying to achieve and why. First of all why do we need the standard? It is obvious that the technology used in machine safety systems has progressed and changed considerably over the last ten years. Until relatively recently safety systems have depended on “simple” equipment with very foreseeable and predictable failure modes. Now we have an increasing use of more complex electronic and programmable electronic devices in safety systems. This has given us advantages in terms of cost, fl exibility and compatibility but it has also meant that the pre-existing standards are or the completed machinery to determine whether by its design and construction it is capable of being erected and put into service safely. • The technical fi le need not exist as a permanent single fi le, but it must be possible to assemble it to make it available in a reasonable time. It must be available for ten years following production of the last unit. The technical fi le does not need to include detailed plans or any other specifi c information regarding sub-assemblies used for the manufacture of the machinery, unless they are essential to verify conformity with the EHSRs. Conformity Assessment for Annex IV Machines Certain types of equipment are subject to special measures. This equipment is listed in Annex IV of the Directive and includes dangerous machines such as some woodworking machines, presses, injection moulding machines, underground equipment, vehicle servicing lifts, etc. ADNA T T T S L S S U D E S -R T - E -- R ---- S ---T--ech F n il i e cal A c d o e n m s n i e g p x n o e n IV d e n a to t l s s d o s e u i t n c e c h c l t u a t d s h e e P s r p c o r e t e e r s t c a e ti i n n v c e s e a d o f e e f v t i y c es persons (e.g. light curtains) and logic Conformity assessments units for ensuring safety functions. For Annex IV machines that are not in full conformity with the relevant Harmonized European Standards the manufacturer or his authorized representative must apply no longer adequate. In order to know whether a safety system is good enough we need to know more about it. This is why the functional safety standards ask for more information. As safety systems are using a more “black box” approach by integrating pre-qualifi ed subsystems we rely more heavily on their conformity to standards. Therefore those standards need to be capable of properly interrogating the technology. In order to fulfi l this they must speak to the basic factors of reliability, fault detection, architectural and systematic integrity. This is the intent of (EN) ISO 13849-1. In order to plot a logical course through the standard, two fundamentally different user types must be considered: the designer of safety-related subsystems and the designers of safety-related systems. In general the subsystem designer [typically a safety component manufacturer] will be subjected to a higher level of rigor. They will need to provide the required data in order that the system designer can ensure that the subsystem is of adequate integrity for the system. This will usually require some testing, analysis and calculation. The results will be expressed in the form of the data required by the standard. The system designer [typically a machine designer or integrator] will use the subsystem data to perform some relatively straightforward calculations as part of the determination of the overall performance level [PL] achieved by the system. 67 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery Determination of the safety function We need to decide what the safety function is. Clearly the safety function must be appropriate to the required task. How does the standard help us? It is important to realize that the functionality required can only be determined by considering the characteristics prevailing at the actual application. This can be regarded as the safety concept design stage. It cannot be completely covered by the standard because