in practice the maximum value is set at 99% (this can also be expressed as 0.99) Diagnostic coverage is the ratio of the probability of detected dangerous failures to the probability all the dangerous failures. Probability of Detected dangerous failures, λDD DC = --------------------------------------------------------------- Probability of Total dangerous failures, λDtotal The value of diagnostic coverage will lie between zero and 99%. 95 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery Hardware Fault Tolerance Hardware fault tolerance represents the number of faults that can be sustained by a subsystem before it causes a dangerous failure. For example, a hardware fault tolerance of 1 means that 2 faults could cause a loss of the safety related control function but one fault would not. Management of Functional Safety The standard gives requirements for the control of management and technical activities that are necessary for the achievement of a safety related electrical control system. Proof Test Interval The proof test interval represents the time after which a subsystem must be either totally checked or replaced to ensure that it is in an “as new” condition. In practice, in the machinery sector, this is achieved by replacement. So the proof test interval is usually the same as lifetime. (EN) ISO 13849-1 refers to this as Mission Time. A proof test is a check that can detect faults and degradation in a SRCS so that the SRCS can be restored as close as practical to an “as new” condition”. The proof test must detect 100% of all dangerous faults including the diagnostic function (if any). Separate channels must be tested separately. In contrast to diagnostic tests, which are automatic, proof tests are usually performed manually and off line. Being automatic, diagnostic testing is performed often as compared to proof testing which is done infrequently. For example, the circuits going to an interlock switch on a guard can be tested automatically for short and open circuit conditions with diagnostic (e.g., pulse) testing. The proof test interval must be declared by the manufacturer. Sometimes the manufacturer will provide a range of different proof test intervals. It is more usual to just replace the subsystem with a new one rather that actually perform a proof test. Safe Failure Fraction (SFF) The safe failure fraction is similar to diagnostic coverage but also takes account of any inherent tendency to fail towards a safe state. For example, when a fuse blows, there is a failure but it is highly probable that the failure will be to an open circuit which, in most cases, would be a “safe” failure. SFF is (the sum of the rate of “safe” failures plus the rate of detected dangerous failures) divided by (the sum of the rate of “safe” failures plus the rate of detected and undetected dangerous failures). It is important to realize that the only types of failures to be considered are those which could have some effect on the safety function. 96 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 System Design According to IEC/EN 62061 The SFF value will normally be stated by the manufacturer if it is relevant. The Safe Failure Fraction (SFF) can be calculated using the following equation: SFF = (∑λ S + (∑λ DD) / ((∑λ S + (∑λ D) where ∑S = the rate of safe failure, ∑λS + ∑λD = the rate of all failure, λDD = the rate of detected dangerous failure λ D = the rate of all dangerous failure. Systematic Failure The standard has requirements for the control and avoidance of systematic failure. Systematic failures differ from random hardware failures which are failures occurring at a random time, typically resulting from some form of degradation of parts of hardware. Typical types of possible systematic failure are software design errors, hardware design errors, requirement specifi cation errors and operational procedures. Examples of steps necessary to avoid systematic failure include • proper selection, combination, arrangements, assembly and installation of components, • use of good engineering practice; • follow manufacturer’s specifi cations and installation instructions; • ensuring compatibility between components • withstanding environmental conditions: • use of suitable materials 97 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery Chapter 9: Safety-Related Control Systems, Additional Considerations Overview This chapter looks at general structural considerations and principles that should be taken into account when designing a safety related control system.. Categories of Control Systems The “Categories” of control systems originated in the former EN 954-1:1996 (ISO13849-1:1999). However they are still often used to describe the structure of safety control systems and they remain an integral part of (EN) ISO13849-1 as Designated Architectures. The description and requirements of the Categories are discussed earlier in this publication at “Overview of (EN) ISO 13849-1”. This section is intended to provide a simplifi ed but practical guide on how to implement the Category structures. Category B Category B should be regarded as the basic foundation upon which all the other Categories are built. It does not have any special provisions or structure for safety beyond the Basic Safety Principles as given in the Annexes A to D of (EN) ISO 13849-2. These represent general good practice in design and selection of materials. Category 1 Category 1 requires the use of Well Tried Components and Well Tried Safety Principles. Shown here is a typical system intended to achieve Category 1. The interlock and the contactor play the key roles in removing energy from the motor, when access to the hazard is needed. The tongue interlock meets the requirements of IEC 60947-5-1 for direct opening action contacts, which is shown by the symbol of the arrow within the circle. With the well-tried components, the probability of energy being removed is higher for Category 1 than it would be for Category B. The use of well-tried components is intended to minimize the possibility of a loss of the safety function but note that a single fault can still lead to the loss of the safety function. 98 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety-Related Control Systems, Additional Considerations +V L1 L2