person has gone beyond a certain point and gives a signal to trip off the power. If the person is then able to continue past this tripping point and their presence is no longer detected then the second point (preventing switching on) may not be achieved. 35 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery p Point: Start of End of Trip Point: Start of Detection Detection Detection Detected Detected Undetected Hazard Hazard Full body access Partial body access The picture shows a full body access example with a vertically mounted light curtain as the trip device. Interlocked guard doors may also be regarded as a trip only device when there is nothing to prevent the door being closed after entry. If whole body access is not possible, so a person is not able to continue past the tripping point, their presence is always detected and the second point (preventing switching on) is achieved. For partial body applications, the same types of devices perform tripping and presence sensing. The only difference being the type of application. Presence sensing devices are used to detect the presence of people. The family of devices includes safety light curtains, single beam safety barriers, safety laser scanners and safety mats. For all presence sensing devices the size of the detection zone and the positioning of the device must take the required safety distance into account. Safety Light Curtains Safety light curtains are most simply described as photoelectric presence sensors specifi cally designed to protect personnel from injuries related to hazardous machine motion. Also known as AOPDs (Active Opto-electronic Protective Devices) or ESPE (Electro Sensitive Protective Equipment), light curtains offer optimal safety, yet they can allow for greater productivity. They are ideally suited for applications where personnel need frequent and easy access to a point of operation hazard. Light curtains are designed and tested to meet IEC 61496-1 and -2. Safety Laser Scanners Safety laser scanners use a rotating mirror that defl ects light pulses over an arc, creating a plane of detection. The location of the object is determined by the angle of rotation of the mirror. Using a “time-of-fl ight” technique of a refl ected beam of invisible light, the scanner can also detect the distance the object is from the 36 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Implementation of Protective Measures scanner. By taking the measured distance and the location of the object, the laser scanner determines the exact position of the object. Pressure Sensitive Safety Mats These devices are used to provide guarding of a fl oor area around a machine. A matrix of interconnected mats is laid around the hazard area and pressure applied to the mat (e.g., an operator’s footstep) will cause the mat controller unit to switch off power to the hazard. Pressure sensitive mats are often used within an enclosed area containing several machines, fl exible manufacturing systems or robotics cells. When cell access is required (for setting or robot “teaching,” for example), they prevent dangerous motion if the operator strays from the safe area. It is important to prevent any movement of the mat(s) by correct and secure fi xing. Pressure Sensitive Edges These devices are fl exible edging strips that can be mounted to the edge of a moving part, such as a machine table or powered door that poses a risk of a crushing or shearing. If the moving part strikes the operator (or vice versa), the fl exible sensitive edge is depressed and will initiate a command to switch off the hazard power source. Sensitive edges can also be used to guard machinery where there is a risk of operator entanglement. If an operator becomes caught in the machine, contact with the sensitive edge will shut down machine power. Light curtains, scanners, fl oor mats and sensitive edges are also classifi ed as “trip devices.” They do not actually restrict access but only “sense” it. They rely entirely on their ability to both sense and switch for the provision of safety. In general they are only suitable on machinery which stops reasonably quickly after switching off the power source. Because an operator can walk or reach directly into the hazard area it is obviously necessary that the time taken for the motion to stop is less than that required for the operator to reach the hazard after tripping the device. Safety Switches When access to the machine is infrequent or when there is a possibility of part ejection, movable (operable) guards are often preferred. The guard is interlocked with the power source of the hazard in a manner which ensures that whenever the guard door is not closed the hazard power will be switched off. This approach involves the use of an interlocking switch fi tted to the guard door. The control of the power source of the hazard is routed through the switch section of the unit. The power source is usually electrical but it could also be pneumatic or hydraulic. When guard door movement (opening) is detected the interlocking switch 37 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery will initiate a command to isolate the hazard power supply either directly or via a power contactor (or valve). Some interlocking switches also incorporate a locking device that locks the guard door closed and will not release it until the machine is in a safe condition. For the majority of applications the combination of a movable guard and an interlock switch with or without guard locking is the most reliable and cost effective solution. (EN) ISO 14119 provides useful guidance on the selection of all types of guard interlocking devices. Its use is recommended. There is a wide variety of safety switch options including: • Tongue Interlock Switches - these devices require a tongue-shaped actuator to be inserted and removed from the switch for operation • Hinge Interlock Switches - these devices are placed on the hinge-pin of a guard door and utilize the opening action of the guard to actuate. • Guardlocking Switches