the standard does not know about all the characteristics of a specifi c application. This also often applies to the machine builder who produces the machine but does not necessarily know the exact conditions under which it will be used. The standard does provide some help by listing out many of the commonly used safety functions (e.g. safety-related stop function initiated by safeguard, muting function, start/restart function) and providing some normally associated requirements. Study of (EN) ISO 12100: ”Basic design principles and Risk assessment” is recommended for use at this stage. ISO TR 22100-2 provides useful guidance on the relationship between the machine risk assessment process from ISO 12100 and the PL allocation process of (EN) ISO 13849-1. There is a large range of machine specifi c standards that will provide safety function requirements for specifi c machines. Within the European EN standards they are termed C type standards, some of them have exact equivalents in ISO standards. ISO TR 22100-1 provides further information on the relationship between ISO 12100 and C standards. It is clear that the safety concept design stage is dependent on the type of machine and also on the characteristics of the application and environment in which it is used. The machine builder must anticipate these factors in order to be able to design the safety concept. The intended [i.e. anticipated] conditions of use should be given in the user manual. The user of the machine needs to check that they match the actual usage conditions. The PLr is used to denote what performance level is required by the safety function and this is determined during the Risk Assessment. In order to determine the PLr the standard provides a risk graph into which the application factors of severity of injury, frequency of exposure and possibility of avoidance are input. The output is the PLr. Users of the old EN 954-1 will be familiar with this approach but take note that within (EN) ISO 13849-1 the S1 line now subdivides whereas the old risk graph did not. The 2015 version provides the possibility for decreasing the PLr by one level in some circumstances depending on the foreseeable probability of occurrence. 68 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 System Design According to (EN) ISO 13849 Categories P1 a F1 B 1 2 3 4 P2 S1 P1 b S1 F2 P2 P1 Start P1 c F1 F1 S2 P2 P2 P1 d S2 P1 F2 P2 e F2 Risk Graph from Annex A of P2 (EN) ISO 13849-1 Risk Graph from Annex B of EN 954-1 So now we have a description of the safety functionality and the required performance level [PLr] for the safety-related parts of the control system [SRP/CS] that will be used to implement this functionality. We now need to design the system and verify that it complies with the PLr. One of the signifi cant factors in the decision on which standard to use [(EN) ISO 13849-1 or EN/IEC 62061] is the complexity of the safety function. In most cases, for machinery, the safety function will be relatively simple and (EN) ISO 13849-1 will be the most suitable route. Reliability data, diagnostic coverage [DC], the system architecture [Category], common cause failure and, where relevant, requirements for software are used to assess the PL. This is a simplifi ed description meant only to give an overview. It is important to understand that all the provisions given in the body of the standard must be applied. However, help is at hand. The SISTEMA software tool is available to help with the documentation and calculation aspects. It also produces a technical fi le. SISTEMA is available in a range of languages including German and English. IFA, the developer of SISTEMA, is a well-respected research and testing institution based in Germany. It is particularly involved in solving scientifi c and technical problems relating to safety in the context of statutory accident insurance and prevention in Germany. It works in cooperation with occupational health and safety agencies from over 20 countries. Experts from the IFA, along with their BG colleagues had signifi cant participation in the drafting of both (EN) ISO 13849-1 and IEC/EN 62061. The “library” of Rockwell Automation safety component data for use with SISTEMA is available at: www.rockwellautomation.com, under Solutions & Services > Safety Solutions. 69 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery Whichever way the calculation of the PL is done it is important to start from the right foundation. We need to view our system in the same way as the standard so let’s start with that. System Structure Any system can be split into basic system components or “subsystems.” Each subsystem has its own discrete function. Most systems can be split into three basic functions; input, logic solving and actuation [some simple systems may not have logic solving]. Input Logic Output Subsystem Subsystem Subsystem The component groups that implement these functions are the subsystems. Input Output Subsystem Subsystem Limit Switch Safety Contactor Interlock switch and safety contactor A simple single channel electrical system example is shown above. It comprises only input and output subsystems. 70 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 System Design According to (EN) ISO 13849 Input Logic Output Subsystem Subsystem Subsystem Output to other systems Limit Switch 440C-CR30 Safety Contactor Interlock switch, safety controller and safety contactor The system shown above is a little more complex because some logic is also required. The safety controller itself will be fault tolerant (e.g. dual channel) internally but the overall system is still limited to single channel status because of the single limit switch and single contactor subsystems. A single channel system will fail if one of its single channel subsystems fails; it is not “fault tolerant”. Input Logic Output Subsystem Subsystem Subsystem Limit Switch 440C-CR30 Safety Contactor Dual channel safety system A dual channel [also called redundant or “fault-tolerant”] system shown above. Each subsystem has two channels and can tolerate a single fault and still provide the safety function. This safety function would need to have