very important that subsystem and system designers are aware of the possibilities of CCF. There are many different types of CCF and, correspondingly, many different ways of avoiding it. (EN) ISO 13849-1 plots a rational course between the extremes of complexity and over simplifi cation. In common with EN/IEC 62061 it adopts an approach that is essentially qualitative. It provides a list of measures known to be effective in avoiding CCF. No. Measure Against CCF Score 1 Separation/Segregation 15 2 Diversity 20 3 Design/Application/Experience 20 4 Assessment/Analysis 5 5 Competence/Training 5 6 Environmental 35 Scoring for Common Cause Failure 82 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 System Design According to (EN) ISO 13849 A suffi cient number of these measures must be implemented in the design of a system or subsystem. It could be claimed, with some justifi cation, that the use of this list alone may not be adequate to prevent all possibility of CCF. However, if the intent of the list is properly considered it becomes clear that the spirit of its requirement is to make the designer analyse the possibilities for CCF and to implement appropriate avoidance measures based on the type of technology and the characteristics of the intended application. Use of the list enforces consideration of some of the most fundamental and effective techniques such as diversity of failure modes and design competencies. The IFA SISTEMA tool also requires the implementation of the standard’s CCF look up tables and makes them available in a convenient form. Systematic Faults We have already discussed quantifi ed safety reliability data in the form of MTTF D and the probability of dangerous failure. However this is not the whole story. When we referred to those terms we were really thinking about failures that appear to be random in nature. Indeed IEC/EN 62061 specifi cally refers to the abbreviation of PFH as the probability of random hardware failure. But there are some types of D failures collectively known as “systematic failure” that can be attributed to errors committed in the design or manufacturing process. The classic example of this is an error in software code. The standard provides measures in Annex G to avoid these errors [and therefore the failures]. These measures include provisions such as the use of suitable materials and manufacturing techniques, reviews, analysis and computer simulation. There are also foreseeable events and characteristics that can occur in the operating environment that could cause failure unless their effect is controlled. Annex G also provides measures for this. For example it is easily foreseeable that there may be occasional losses of power. Therefore the de- energisation of components must result in a safe state for the system. These measures may seem to be just common sense, and indeed they are, but they are nevertheless essential. All the rest of the requirements of the standard will be meaningless unless due consideration is given to the control and avoidance of systematic failure. This will also sometimes require the same types of measures used for the control of random hardware failure [in order to achieve the required PFH ] such as automatic diagnostic test and redundant hardware. D Fault Exclusion One of the primary analysis tools for safety systems is failure analysis. The designer and user must understand how the safety system performs in the presence of faults. Many techniques are available to perform the analysis. Examples include Fault Tree Analysis; Failure Modes, Effects and Criticality Analysis; Event Tree Analysis; and Load-Strength reviews. 83 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery During the analysis, certain faults may be uncovered that cannot be detected with automatic diagnostic testing without undue economic costs. Further, the probability that these faults might occur may be made extremely small because of mitigating design, construction and test methods. Under these conditions, the faults may be excluded from further consideration. Fault exclusion is the ruling out of the occurrence of a failure because the probability of that specifi c failure of the SRCS is negligible. (EN) ISO13849-1 allows fault exclusion based on the technical improbability of occurrence, generally accepted technical experience and the technical requirements related to the application. (EN) ISO13849-2 provides examples and justifi cations for excluding certain faults for electrical, pneumatic, hydraulic and mechanical systems. Fault exclusions must be declared with detailed justifi cations provided in the technical documentation. It is not always possible to evaluate a Safety-Related Control System without assuming that certain faults can be excluded. For detailed information on fault exclusions, see ISO 13849-2. As the level of risk gets higher, the justifi cation for fault exclusion gets more stringent. In general, where PLe is required for a safety function to be implemented by a safety-related control system it is not normal to rely upon fault exclusions to achieve this level of performance. This is dependent upon the technology used and the intended operating environment. Therefore it is essential the designer takes additional care on the use of fault exclusions as that PL requirement increases. Performance Level (PL) The performance level is a discrete level that specifi es the ability of the safety- related parts of the control system to perform a safety function. In order to assess the PL achieved by an implementation of any of the fi ve designated architectures, the following data is required for the system (or subsystem): • MTTF (mean time to dangerous failure of each channel) D • DC (diagnostic coverage). • Architecture (the category) The following diagram shows a graphical method for determining the PL from the combination of these factors. The table at Annex K shows the tabular results of different Markov models that created the basis of this diagram. Refer to the table when more precise determination is needed. 84 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 System Design According to (EN) ISO 13849 a b c d e Cat B Cat 1 Cat 2 Cat 2 Cat 3 Cat 3 Cat 4 DCavgnone DCavgnone DCavglow DCavgmed DCavglow