stage, validation of the safety functions must be carried out in all operating modes and should cover all normal and foreseeable abnormal conditions. Combinations of inputs and sequences of operation must also be taken into consideration. This procedure is important because it is always necessary to check that the system is suitable for actual operational and environmental characteristics. Some of those characteristics may be different from the ones anticipated at the design stage. 86 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 System Design According to IEC/EN 62061 Chapter 8: System Design According to IEC/EN 62061 IEC/EN 62061, “Safety of machinery - Functional safety of safety related electrical, electronic and programmable electronic control systems,” is the machinery specifi c implementation of IEC/EN 61508. It provides requirements that are applicable to the system level design of all types of machinery safety related electrical control systems and also for the design of non-complex subsystems or devices. The risk assessment results in a risk reduction strategy which in turn, identifi es the need for safety related control functions. These functions must be documented and must include a: • functional requirements specifi cation and a • safety integrity requirements specifi cation. The functional requirements include details like frequency of operation, required response time, operating modes, duty cycles, operating environment, and fault reaction functions. The safety integrity requirements are expressed in levels called safety integrity levels (SIL). Depending on the complexity of the system, some or all of the elements in the table below must be considered to determine whether the system design meets the required SIL. Element for SIL Consideration Symbol Probability of Dangerous Failure per Hour PFH D Hardware Fault Tolerance HFT Safe Failure Fraction SFF Proof Test Interval T1 Diagnostic Test Interval T2 Susceptibility to Common Cause Failures β Diagnostic Coverage DC Elements for SIL Consideration Subsystems The term “subsystem” has a special meaning in IEC/EN 62061. It is the fi rst level subdivision of a system into parts which, if they fail, would cause a failure of the safety function. Therefore if two redundant switches are used in a system neither individual switch is a subsystem. The subsystem would comprise both switches and any associated fault diagnostic function. 87 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery Probability of Dangerous Failure per Hour (PFH ) D IEC/EN 62061 uses the same basic methods as discussed in the section on (EN) ISO 13849-1 to determine failure rates at the component level. The same provisions and methods apply for “mechanistic” and electronic components. In IEC/EN 62061 there is no consideration of MTTF in years. The failure rate per hour (λ) is either D calculated directly or obtained or derived from the B10 value by the following formula: λ = 0.1 x C/B10 (where C = the number of operating cycles per hour) There is a signifi cant difference between the standards in the methodology for determining the total PFH for a subsystem or system. An analysis of the D components must be undertaken to determine the probability of failure of the subsystems. Simplifi ed formulae are provided for the calculation of common subsystem architectures (described later in text). Where these formulae are not appropriate it will be necessary to use more complex calculation methods such as Markov models. The Probability of Dangerous Failure (PFH ) of each subsystem D are then added together to determine the total PFH for the system. Table 3 of D the standard can then be used to determine which Safety Integrity Level (SIL) is appropriate to that range of PFH . D SIL PFH D (Safety Integrity Level) (Probability of dangerous failure per hour) 3 ≥10-8 to <10-7 2 ≥10-7 to <10-6 1 ≥10-6 to <10-5 Probabilities of Dangerous Failure for SILs The PFH data for a subsystem will usually be provided by the manufacturer. Data D for Rockwell Automation safety components and systems is available at: www.rockwellautomation.com, under Solutions & Services > Safety Solutions IEC/EN 62061 also makes it clear that reliability data handbooks can be used if and where applicable. For low complexity electromechanical devices, the failure mechanism is usually linked to the number and frequency of operations rather than just time. Therefore for these components the data will derived from some form of testing (e.g. B10 testing as described in the chapter on (EN) ISO 13849-1). Application based information such as the anticipated number of operations per year is then required in order to convert the B10d or similar data to PFH . D 88 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 System Design According to IEC/EN 62061 NOTE: In general the following is true (taking into account a factor to change years to hours): PFH = 1/MTTF D D However, it is important to understand that, for a dual channel system (with or without diagnostics), it is not correct to use 1/ PFH to determine the MTTF that D D is required by (EN) ISO 13849-1. That standard calls for the MTTF of a single D channel. This is a very different value to the MTTF of the combination of both D channels of a two channel subsystem including the effect of diagnostic coverage. Architectural Constraints The essential characteristic of IEC/EN 62061 is that the safety system is divided into subsystems. The hardware safety integrity level that can be claimed for a subsystem is limited not only by the PFH but also by the hardware fault tolerance D and the safe failure fraction of the subsystems. Hardware fault tolerance is the ability of the system to execute its function in the presence of faults. A fault tolerance of zero means that the function is not performed when a single fault occurs. A fault tolerance of one allows the subsystem to perform its function in the presence of a single fault. Safe Failure Fraction is the portion of the overall failure rate that does not result in a dangerous failure. The combination of these two elements is known as the architectural constraint and its output is the SIL Claim Limit (SIL CL). The