development of more effi cient, safer and more productive manufacturing solutions. With many years of automation and safety experience, application knowledge and applying leading edge guiding principles from safety standards such as ISO 12000, (EN) ISO 13849-1 and IEC 62061, Rockwell Automation can assist you with the selection, integration, training and support of machinery safety, process safety and electrical safety solutions. 143 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery 144 Publication: SAFEBK-RM002C-EN-P - November 2016 © 2016 Rockwell Automation, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Superceedes Publication: SAFEBK-RM002B-EN-P States, one of the main drivers of industrial safety is the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). OSHA was established in 1971 by an Act of the U.S. Congress. The purpose of this act is to provide safe and healthful working conditions and to preserve human resources. The act authorizes the Secretary of Labor to set mandatory occupational safety and health standards applicable to businesses affecting interstate commerce. This Act shall apply with respect to employment performed in a workplace in a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the Trust Territory of the Pacifi c Islands, Wake Island, Outer Continental Shelf Lands defi ned in the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, Johnston Island, and the Canal Zone. Article 5 of the Act sets the basic requirements. Each employer shall furnish to each of his employees employment and a place of employment which are free from recognized hazards that are causing or are likely to cause death or serious physical 13 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery harm to his employees; and shall comply with occupational safety and health standards promulgated under this Act. Article 5 also states that each employee shall comply with occupational safety and health standards and all rules, regulations, and orders issued pursuant to this Act which are applicable to his own actions and conduct. The OSHA Act places the responsibility on both the employer and the employee. This is quite divergent from Machinery Directive, which requires suppliers to place machines on the market that are free from hazards. In the U.S., a supplier can sell a machine without any safeguarding. The user must add the safeguarding to make the machine safe. Although this was a common practice when the Act was approved, the trend is for suppliers to provide machines with the safeguarding, as designing safety into a machine is far more cost effective than adding the safeguarding after the machine is designed and built. Standards are now attempting to get the supplier and user to communicate requirements for safeguarding so that machines are made not only safe but more productive. The Secretary of Labor has the authority to promulgate as an occupational safety or health standard any national consensus standard, and any established Federal standard, unless the promulgation of such a standard would not result in improved safety or health for specifi cally designated employees. OSHA accomplishes this task by publishing regulations in Title 29 of the Code of Federal Regulation (29 CFR). Standards pertaining to industrial machinery are published by OSHA in Part 1910 of 29 CFR. They are freely available on the OSHA website at www.osha.gov. Unlike most standards, which are voluntary, the OSHA standards are laws. Some of the important parts as they pertain to machine safety are as follows: A - General B - Adoption and Extension of Established Federal Standards C - General Safety and Health Provisions H - Hazardous Materials I - Personal Protective Equipment J - General Environmental Controls - includes Lockout/Tagout O - Machinery and Machine Guarding R - Special Industries S - Electrical 14 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Regulations Some OSHA standards reference voluntary standards. The legal effect of incorporation by reference is that the material is treated as if it were published in full in the Federal Register. When a national consensus standard is incorporated by reference in one of the subparts, that standard has the ‘force of law’. For example, NFPA 70, a voluntary standard known as the US National Electric Code, is referenced in Subpart S. This makes the requirements in the NFPA70 standard mandatory. The 29 CFR 1910.147, in Subpart J, covers the control of hazardous energy. This is commonly known as the Lockout/Tagout standard. The equivalent voluntary standard is ANSI Z244.1. Essentially, this standard requires power to the machine to be locked out when undergoing service or maintenance. The purpose is to prevent the unexpected energization or startup of the machine which would result in injury to employees. Employers must establish a lockout and tagout program and utilize procedures for affi xing appropriate lockout devices or tagout devices to energy isolating devices, and to otherwise disable machines or equipment to prevent unexpected energization, start up or release of stored energy in order to prevent injury to employees. Minor tool changes and adjustments, and other minor servicing activities, which take place during normal production operations, are covered by ANSI Z244 “Alternative Measures” if they are routine, repetitive, and integral to the use of the equipment for production, provided that the work is performed using alternative measures which provide effective protection. This is directly supported by OSHA in the “OSHA Minor Servicing Exception”. Alternative measures are safeguarding devices like light curtains, safety mats, gate interlocks and other similar devices connected to a safety system. The challenge to the machine designer and user is to determine what is “minor” and what is “routine, repetitive and integral.” This can be covered during the Risk Assessment. Subpart O covers “Machinery and Machine Guarding.” This subpart lists the general requirements for all machines as well as requirements for some specifi c machines. When OSHA was formed in 1971, it adopted many existing ANSI standards. For example B11.1 for mechanical power presses was adopted as 1910.217. The 1910.212 is the general OSHA standard for machines. It states that one or more methods of machine guarding shall be provided to protect the operator and other employees in the machine