€10,000,000 or 2% of global annual revenue. Five Steps to Improving The RA Safety Maturity Step One Step Two Step Three Step Four Step Five The Machinery Key Dates Re-ordering of Substantial Compliance Route/ OEM - Call to Action Further Safety Maturity Improvement Process PG 7 PG 11 PG 13 PG 15 PG 20 10 Regulation (EU) PG 3 the annexes Modifications Fines & Penalties PG 11 Information PG 2 PG 6 PG 2 PG 4 PG 9 PG 10 PG 12 OEM – Call to Action As an OEM, download Identify the changes If you have any form Review, update, or Finally, keep yourself a copy of the that affect you and your of network, conduct generate cybersecurity updated. Machinery Regulation machinery. With the a vulnerability policy documents. Learn more here 2023/1230 and review additional requirements assessment to allow This may need the the document. The for protection the development of organization to partner Machinery Regulation against corruption, relevant cybersecurity with a third-party can be found here. Rockwell Automation requirements, and consultancy. recommends you then implement the Learn more here conduct a cyber risk necessary mitigation / assessment. technology. Learn more here Learn more here The Machinery Key Dates Re-ordering of Substantial Compliance Route/ OEM - Call to Action Further 11 Regulation (EU) PG 3 the annexes Modifications Fines & Penalties PG 11 Information PG 2 PG 4 PG 9 PG 10 PG 12 Further Information The Rockwell Automation website will provide further details on the Machinery Regulation (EU) 2023/1230 and also provide updates as the standards covering the new requirements highlighted in this guide are released. If you’re looking to enhance the performance, safety, and productivity of your business, you might want to learn more about the services, tools, and technology available. You can check out this webpage to explore the best-in-class options available for your business needs and outcomes. If you’re interested in learning more about industrial cybersecurity and how to protect your operational technology (OT) environment, check out our latest cybersecurity resources here. The Machinery Key Dates Re-ordering of Substantial Compliance Route/ OEM - Call to Action Further 12 Regulation (EU) PG 3 the annexes Modifications Fines & Penalties PG 11 Information PG 2 PG 4 PG 9 PG 10 PG 12 BIBLIOGRAPHY • ANNEX I • CATEGORIES OF MACHINERY OR RELATED PRODUCTS PART A 4. B andsaws with manual loading and/or unloading for working with wood and material with similar physical characteristics, or for working with meat and material with Categories of machinery or related products to which a procedure referred to in similar physical characteristics, of the following types: Article 25(2) shall be applied: 4.1. s awing machinery with fixed blade(s) during cutting, having a fixed or 1. Removable mechanical transmission devices including their guards. reciprocating-movement bed or support for the workpiece; 2. Guards for removable mechanical transmission devices. 4.2. sawing machinery with blade(s) assembled on a carriage with reciprocating motion. 3. Vehicle servicing lifts. 5. C ombined machinery of the types referred to in points 1 to 4 and in point 7 for 4. Portable cartridge-operated fixing and other impact machinery. working with wood and material with similar physical characteristics. 5. S afety components with fully or partially self-evolving behaviour using machine 6. Hand-fed tenoning machinery with several tool holders for woodworking. learning approaches ensuring safety functions. 7. H and-fed vertical spindle molding machinery for working with wood and material 6. M achinery that has embedded