resulting block appears as shown. 3. Click, drag and release a Feedback Monitoring Safety Monitoring function to the Safety Monitoring block below the SensaGuard block in the workspace. 116 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Application Examples Note that Connected Components Workbench software assigns this to input terminal EI_02, the next available Safety Input terminal. The software assumes that this is a single input and automatically assigns the function name SMF 2 to this block. 4. Because the circuit requires two inputs, one from each contactor, change the number of inputs to 2, one for the N.C. contact from each 100S contactor. 5. Assign the inputs to Plug-In terminals PI_00 and PI_01. This avoids unnecessarily using Safety Inputs for feedback signals. 117 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery 6. Click, drag and release a Reset safety monitoring function to the Safety Monitoring block below the Feedback Monitoring block in the workspace. Connected Components Workbench software automatically assigns the function name SMF 3 to this block. Re-assign the Reset Input to Plug-In terminal PI_02. Confi gure the Outputs Follow these steps to confi gure the outputs. 1. Click and drag Immediate OFF from the Safety Output Function Blocks section of the FOR SAFETY COMPONENTS—You must issue a Declaration of Conformity. Whereas the Machinery Directive is aimed at suppliers, this Directive (2009/104/EC) is aimed at users of machinery. It covers all industrial sectors and it places general duties on employers together with minimum requirements for the safety of work equipment. All EU countries are enacting their own forms of legislation to implement this Directive. 11 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery For example it is implemented in the UK under the name of The Provision and Use of Work Equipment Regulations (often abbreviated to P.U.W.E.R.). The form of implementation may vary between countries but the effect of the Directive is retained. The articles of the Directive give details of which types of equipment and workplaces are covered by the Directive. They also place general duties on employers such as instituting safe systems of working and providing suitable and safe equipment that must be properly maintained. Machine operators must be given proper information and training for the safe use of the machine. New machinery (and second hand machinery from outside the EU) provided after January 1, 1993 should satisfy any relevant product directives, e.g., The Machinery Directive (subject to transitional arrangements). Second hand equipment from within the EU provided for the fi rst time in the workplace must immediately provide minimum requirements given in an annex of the U.W.E. Directive. Note: Existing or second-hand machinery which is signifi cantly overhauled or modifi ed will be classifi ed as new equipment, so the work carried out on it must ensure compliance with the Machinery Directive (even if it is for a company’s own use). Suitability of work equipment is an important requirement of the directive and it highlights the employer’s responsibility to carry out a proper process of risk assessment. It Toolbox. 118 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Application Examples 2. Release it on the top block of the Safety Output column in the workspace. Connected Components Workbench software automatically assigns output terminals EO_18 and EO_19. Pulse Testing is the default for these terminals. The default Reset Type is Manual. Leave these settings at their defaults. 3. Choose SMF 2 from the Feedback pull-down menu. 4. Choose SMF 3 from the Reset Input pull-down menu. 119 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery The safety output confi guration is complete. Confi gure the Logic The Logic section determines how the safety outputs respond to the safety monitoring inputs. In this case, the safety output follows the safety monitoring input directly. 1. Click the blue dot on the right side of the SensaGuard Safety Monitoring input block. It turns gray. 2. Click the blue dot on the left side of the Safety Output block to connect the logic. 120 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Application Examples The completed logic looks like this. Confi gure the Status Indicators The 440C-CR30 confi gurable safety relay provides ten user-confi gurable input status indicator LEDs and six user- confi gurable output status indicator LEDs. In many cases, they can be very helpful in installing, commissioning, monitoring and troubleshooting a 440C-CR30 confi gurable safety relay system. They do not affect the operation of the system in any way, and it is not necessary to confi gure them, but they are easy to confi gure and it is a recommended practice to use them. 121 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery 1. Click Guardmaster_440C_CR30*. 2. Select LED Confi guration. 3. For the Type Filter, choose Terminal Status for LED 0. 122 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Application Examples 4. For LED 0, choose Terminal 00 from the Value pull-down menu. The Status Indicator LED 0 is now confi gured to show the status of terminal 00. 5. Assign the next four Input LEDs (1…4) in the same manner. The input status indicator LEDs are now confi gured. 6. Assign the three output LEDs as follows. Confi rm the Validity of the Build Follow these steps to confi rm the validity of the logic by using the Build feature in Connected Components Workbench software. 1. Click Guardmaster_440C_CR30 in the bar above the workspace. 123 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery 2. Click Build. A Build Succeeded message confi rms that the confi guration is valid. If an error or omission is discovered during a build, a message is displayed which details the error so that it may be corrected. After you correct the error, you need to perform the build again. Save and Download the Project Follow these steps to save and download the project. 1. From the File menu, choose Save as to save the project. 2. In the Project Organizer window, double click Guardmaster_440C_CR30 to open the workspace. 3. Power up the 440C-CR30 safety relay. 4. Connect the USB cable to the 440C-CR30 relay. 124