functional test interval and proof test interval. The good news is that this complex calculation will normally be done by the device manufacturer. Both EN/IEC 62061 and (EN) ISO 13849-1 accept a subsystem calculated in this way to IEC 61508. The resulting PFH can be used directly into either Annex K of (EN) ISO 13849-1 or the D SISTEMA calculation tool. 79 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery Software: Failures of software are inherently systematic in nature. Failures are caused by the way it is conceived, written or compiled. Therefore all failures are caused by the system under which it is produced, not by its use. Therefore in order to control the failures we must control that system. Both IEC 61508 and (EN) ISO 13849- 1 provide requirements and methodologies for this. We do not need to go into detail here other than to say they use the classic V model. Embedded software is an issue for the designer of the device. The usual approach is to develop embedded software in accordance with the formal methods laid out in IEC 61508 part 3. When it comes to application code, the software that a user interfaces with, most programmable safety devices are provided with “certifi ed” function blocks or routines. This simplifi es the validation task for application code but it must be remembered that the completed application program still needs to be validated. The way the blocks are linked and parameterised must be proved correct and valid for the intended task. (EN) ISO 13849-1 and IEC/EN 62061 both provide guidelines for this process. Safety-related Safety Validated software Validation Validation functions software specification specification System Integration design testing Module Module design testing Result Coding Verification V model for software development 80 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 System Design According to (EN) ISO 13849 Diagnostic Coverage We have already touched on this subject when we considered the Designated Architecture Categories 2, 3 and 4. Those Categories require some form of diagnostic testing to check whether the safety function is still working. The term “diagnostic coverage” [usually abbreviated to DC] is used to characterise the effectiveness of this testing. It is important to realise that DC is not based just on the number of components that can fail dangerously. It takes account of the total dangerous failure rate. The symbol λ is used for “failure rate”. DC expresses the relationship of the rates of occurrence of the two following types of dangerous failure; Dangerous detected failure [λdd] i.e. Those failures that would cause, or could lead to, a loss of the safety function, but which are detected. After detection, a fault reaction function causes the device or system to go to safe state. Dangerous failure [λd] i.e. All those failures that could potentially cause, or lead to, a loss of the safety function. This includes both the failures that are detected and those that are not. Of course the failures that are truly dangerous are the dangerous undetected ones [termed λdu] DC is expressed by the formula; DC = λdd/λd expressed as a percentage. This meaning of the term DC is common to (EN) ISO 13849-1 and EN/IEC 62061. However the way that it is derived differs. The latter standard proposes the use of calculation based on failure mode analysis but also allows the use of the simplifi ed method in the form of look-up tables as provided in (EN) ISO 13849-1. Various typical diagnostic techniques are listed together with the DC percentage that their use is deemed to achieve. In some cases rational judgment is still required, for example in some techniques the achieved DC is proportional to how often the test is performed. It is sometimes argued that this approach is too vague. However the estimation of DC can depend on many different variables and whichever technique is used the result can usually only truly be described as approximate. It is also important to understand that the tables in (EN) ISO 13849-1 are based on extensive research conducted by the IFA into the results achieved by known, actual diagnostic techniques used in real applications. In the interest of simplifi cation the standard divides DC into four basic ranges. <60% = none 60% to <90% = low 90% to <99% = medium ≥99% = high 81 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery This approach of dealing with ranges instead of individual percentage values also can be considered to be more realistic in terms of achievable accuracy. The SISTEMA tool uses the same look-up tables as the standard. As the use of complex electronics increases in safety related devices, DC becomes a more important factor. It is likely that future work on the standards will look further into clarifi cation of this issue. In the meantime the use of engineering judgment and common sense should be suffi cient to lead to the correct choice of DC range. Common Cause Failure In most dual channel [i.e. single fault tolerant] systems or subsystems the diagnostic principle is based on the premise that there will not be dangerous failures of both channels at the same time. The term “at the same time” is more accurately expressed as “within the diagnostic test interval”. If the diagnostic test interval is reasonably short [e.g. less than eight hours] it is a reasonable assumption that two separate and unrelated faults are highly unlikely to occur within that time. However the standard makes it clear that we need to think carefully about whether the fault possibilities really are separate and unrelated. For example, if a fault in one component can foreseeably lead to failures of other components then the resulting totality of faults are deemed to be a single failure. It is also possible that an event that causes one component to fail may also cause the failure of other components. This is termed “common cause failure”, normally abbreviated as CCF. The degree of propensity for CCF is normally described as the beta (β) factor. It is