following table shows the relationship of the architectural constraints to the SILCL. A subsystem (and therefore its system) must satisfy both the PFH requirements and the Architectural Constraints together with the other D relevant provisions of the standard. Safe Failure Hardware Fault Tolerance Fraction (SFF) 0 1 2 <60% Not allowed unless SIL1 SIL2 specifi c exceptions apply 60% - <90% SIL1 SIL2 SIL3 90% - < 99% SIL2 SIL3 SIL3 ≥99% SIL3 SIL3 SIL3 Architectural Constraints on SIL For example, a subsystem architecture that possesses single fault tolerance and has a safe failure fraction of 75% is limited to no higher than a SIL2 rating, regardless of the probability of dangerous failure. When combining subsystems, the 89 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery SIL achieved by the SRCS is constrained to be less than or equal to the lowest SIL CL of any of the subsystems involved in the safety-related control function System Realization To compute the probability of dangerous failure, each safety function must be broken down into function blocks, which are then realized as subsystems. A system design implementation of a typical safety function would include a sensing device connected to a logic device connected to an actuator. This creates a series arrangement of subsystems. As we have already seen, if we can determine the probability of dangerous failure for each subsystem and know its SIL CL, then the system probability of failure is easily calculated by adding the probability of failures of the subsystems. This concept is shown below. SUBSYSTEM 1 SUBSYSTEM 2 SUBSYSTEM 3 Position sensing Logic solving Output actuation Functional and Functional and Functional and Integrity requirements from Integrity requirements from Integrity requirements from IEC/EN 62061 IEC/EN 62061 IEC/EN 62061 SIL CL 2 Architectural SIL CL 2 Architectural SIL CL 2 Architectural Constraints Constraints Constraints PFHD = 1x10-7 PFHD = 1x10-7 PFHD = 1x10-7 = PFHD 1 + PFHD 2 + PFHD 3 = 1x10-7 + 1x10-7 + 1x10-7 = 3x10-7 i.e., suitable for SIL2 If, for example, we want to achieve SIL 2, each subsystem must have a SIL Claim Limit (SIL CL) of at least SIL 2, and the sum of the PFH for the system must not D exceed the limit allowed in the previous table showing the ‘Probability of Dangerous Failures for SILs’. Subsystem Design - IEC/EN 62061 If a system designer uses components ready “packaged” into subsystems according to IEC/EN 62061 life becomes much easier because the specifi c requirements for the design of subsystems do not apply. These requirements will, in general, be covered by the device (subsystem) manufacturer and are much more complex than those required for system level design. IEC/EN 62061 requires that complex subsystems such as safety PLCs comply with IEC 61508 or other appropriate standards. This means that, for devices using complex electronic or programmable components, the full rigor of IEC 61508 applies. This can be a very rigorous and involved process. For example, 90 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 System Design According to IEC/EN 62061 the evaluation of the PFH achieved by a complex subsystem can be a very D complicated process using techniques such as Markov modelling, reliability block diagrams or fault tree analysis. IEC/EN 62061 does give requirements for the design of lower complexity subsystems. Typically this would include relatively simple electrical components such as interlock switches and electromechanical safety monitoring relays. The requirements are not as involved as those in IEC 61508 but can still be quite complicated. IEC/EN 62061 supplies four subsystem logical architectures with accompanying formulae that can be used to evaluate the PFH achieved by a low complexity D subsystem. These architectures are purely logical representations and should not be thought of as physical architectures. The four subsystem logical architectures with accompanying formulae are shown in the following four diagrams. For a basic subsystem architecture shown below, the probabilities of dangerous failures are simply added together. Subsystem A Subsystem Subsystem element 1 element n De1 Den Subsystem logical architecture A λDssA = λDe1 + ....+ λDen PFHDssA = λDssA λ Lambda is used to designate the failure rate. The units of the failure rate are failures per hour. λD, Lambda sub D is the dangerous failure rate. λDssA, Lambda sub DssA is the dangerous failure rate of subsystem λ. Lambda sub DssA is the sum of the failure rates of the individual elements, e1, e2, e3, up to and including en. The probability of dangerous failure is multiplied by 1 hour to create the probability of failure within one hour. The next diagram shows a single fault tolerant system without a diagnostic function. When the architecture includes single fault tolerance, the potential for common cause failure exists and must be considered. The derivation of the common cause failure is briefl y described later in this chapter. 91 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery Subsystem B Subsystem element 1 De1 Common cause Subsystem failure element 2 De2 Subsystem logical architecture B DssB = (1-β)2 x ʎDe1 x ʎDe2 x T1 + β x (ʎDe1 + ʎDe2) / 2 PFHDssB = ʎDssB The formulae for this architecture takes into account the parallel arrangement of the subsystem elements and adds the following two elements from the previous table ‘Elements for SIL Consideration’. β - the susceptibility to common cause failures (Beta) T1 - the proof test interval or lifetime, whichever is smaller. The proof test is designed to detect faults and degradation of the safety subsystem so that the subsystem can be restored to an operating condition. In practical terms this usually means replacement (like the equivalent term “mission time” in (EN) ISO 13849-1). The next diagram shows the functional representation of a zero fault tolerant system with a diagnostic function. Diagnostic coverage is used to decrease the probability of dangerous hardware failures. The diagnostic tests are performed automatically. The defi nition of diagnostic coverage is the same as given in (EN) ISO 13849-1 i.e. the ratio of the rate of detected dangerous failures compared to