take additional measures if necessary. Reset Functions Allen Bradley Guardmaster monitoring safety relays are designed with either monitored manual reset or automatic/manual reset. Monitored Manual Reset A monitored manual reset requires a change of state of the reset circuit after the gate is closed or the emergency stop is reset. The mechanically linked normally closed auxiliary contacts of the power switching contactors are connected in series with a momentary push button. After the guard has been opened and closed again, the safety relay will not allow the machine to be restarted until there is a change of 47 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery state at the reset button. This is in compliance with the intent of the requirements for additional manual reset as given in (EN) ISO 13849-1. i.e., the reset function ensures that both contactors are OFF and that both interlock circuits (and therefore the guards) are closed and also (because a change of state is required) that the reset actuator has not been bypassed or blocked (tied down) in any way. If these checks are successful the machine can then be restarted from the normal controls. (EN) ISO 13849-1 cites the change of state from energized to de-energized (‘falling edge’). The reset switch should be located in a place that provides a good view of the hazard so that the operator can check that the area is clear before operation. Auto/ Manual Reset Some safety relays have automatic/manual reset. The manual reset mode is not monitored and reset occurs when the button is pressed. A short circuited or jammed in reset switch will not be detected. With this approach it may not be possible to achieve the requirements for additional manual reset as given in (EN) ISO 13849-1 unless additional means are used. Alternatively the reset line can be jumpered allowing an automatic reset. The user must then provide another mechanism for preventing machine start-up when the gate closes. An auto-reset device does not require a manual switching action but after de- actuation it will always conduct a system integrity check before resetting the system. An auto-reset system should not be confused with a device without reset facilities. In the latter the safety system will be enabled immediately after de-actuation but there will be no system integrity check. The reset switch should be located in a place that provides a good view of the hazard so that the operator can check that the area is clear before operation. Control Guards A control guard stops a machine when the guard is opened and directly starts it again when the guard is closed. The use of control guards is only allowed under certain stringent conditions because any unexpected start-up or failure to stop would be extremely dangerous. The interlocking system must have the highest possible reliability (it is often advisable to use guard locking). The use of control guards can only be considered on machinery where there is no possibility of an operator or part of his body staying in or reaching into the danger zone while the guard is closed. The control guard must be the only access to the hazard area. 48 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Implementation of Protective Measures Safety Programmable Logic Controls The need for fl exible and scalable safety applications drove the development of safety PLCs/controllers. Programmable safety controllers provide users the same level of control fl exibility in a safety application that they are accustomed to with standard programmable controllers. However there are extensive differences between standard and safety PLCs. Safety PLCs come in various platforms to accommodate the scalability, functional and integration requirements of the more complex safety systems. Multiple microprocessors are used to process the I/O, memory, and safe communications. Watchdog circuits perform diagnostic analysis. This type of construction is known as 1oo2D, because either one of the two microprocessors can perform the safety function, and extensive diagnostics are performed to ensure that both microprocessors are operating in sync. Micro- processor Flash RAM Ports I/O Module Address Data Control WATCHDOG/ SYNC COMPARE Address Data Control Micro- Flash RAM processor 1oo2D Architecture Also, each input circuit is internally tested many times each second to make sure that it is operating correctly. You may only hit the emergency stop once a month; but when you do, the internal circuit has been continuously tested. 49 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery Micro- processor Input 1 Test Address Data Input 2 Data Control Test Buffers SYNC WATCHDOG/ Input 3 COMPARE Test Address Data Test Control Control Circuit Micro- processor 50 SUB OI Safety input module block diagram Safety PLC outputs are electromechanical or safety rated solid state. Like the input circuits, the output circuits are tested multiple times show evidence that proves conformity with the EHSRs. This fi le should include all relevant information such as test results, drawings, specifi cations, etc. A harmonized European (EN) Standard TEST that is listed in the Offi cial Journal of RESULTS ------------- the European Union (OJ) under the - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - S- - - - - - T- - ANDARDS Machinery Directive, and whose date of cessation of presumption of conformity has not expired, confers a presumption of conformity with certain of the EHSR’s. (Many recent standards listed in the OJ include a cross-reference identifying the EHSR’s that are covered by the standard). Therefore, where Machine must meet EHSRs equipment complies with such current harmonized European standards, the task of demonstrating conformity with the EHSR’s is greatly simplifi ed, and the manufacturer also benefi ts from the increased legal certainty. These standards are not legally required, however, their use is strongly recommended since proving conformity by alternative methods can be an extremely complex issue. These standards support the Machinery Directive and are produced by CEN (the European