the safety system and either allow the machine to start or execute commands to stop the machine. A range of logic devices are available to create a safety architecture that meets the complexity and the functionality required for the machine. Small hardwired monitoring safety relays are most economical for smaller machines where a dedicated logic device is needed to complete the safety function. Modular and confi gurable monitoring safety relays are preferred where a large and diverse number of safeguarding devices and minimal zone control are required. The medium to large and more complex machine may fi nd programmable safety systems with distributed I/O to be preferable. Monitoring Safety Relays (MSR) Monitoring safety relay (MSR) modules play a key role in many safety systems. These modules are usually comprised of two or more positively guided relays with additional circuitry to ensure the performance of the safety function. 42 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Implementation of Protective Measures Positive guided relays are designed to prevent the normally closed and normally open contacts from being closed simultaneously. Some monitoring safety relays have safety rated solid state outputs. Monitoring safety relays perform many checks on the safety system. Upon power- up, they perform self-checks on their internal components. When the input devices are activated, the MSR compares the results of redundant inputs. If acceptable, the MSR checks external actuators connected to its outputs. If okay, the MSR awaits a reset signal to energize its outputs. Therefore a correctly selected and confi gured MSR can provide system fault detection by checking its connected input and output devices. It can also provide a start/restart interlock. The selection of the appropriate safety relay is dependent on a number of factors: the type of device it monitors, the type of reset, the number and type of outputs etc. Types of Inputs to Monitoring Safety Relays (MSR) Different types of safeguarding devices provide different types of inputs to a monitoring safety relay so it is important to check for compatibility. The following is a brief summary of the types inputs that can be expected and the required cross-fault detection characteristics. Electromechanical Interlocks, some Non-Contact Interlocks and Emergency Stops: Mechanical contacts, single channel with one normally closed contact or dual channel, both normally closed. The MSR must be able to accept single or dual channel and provide cross-fault detection for the dual channel arrangement. Some Non-Contacts Interlocks and Emergency Stops: Mechanical contacts, dual channel, one normally open and one normally closed contact. The MSR must be able to process diverse inputs. Devices with solid state outputs: Light curtains, laser scanners and some non- contact guard interlocks have two sourcing outputs and perform their own cross- fault detection. The MSR must be able to ignore the devices cross-fault detection method. Pressure Sensitive Mats: Mats create a short circuit between two channels. The MSR must be specifi cally designed or confi gurable for this application. Pressure Sensitive Edges: Some edges are designed like 4-wire mats. Some are two wire devices that create a change in resistance. The MSR must be able to detect a short circuit or the change resistance. 43 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery Motor motion sensing: Measures the back EMF of a motor during rundown. The MSR must be able to tolerate high voltages as well as detect low voltages as the motor spins down. Stopped Motion: The MSR must detect pulse streams from diverse, redundant sensors. Two-hand Control: The MSR must detect normally open and normally closed diverse inputs as well as provide 0.5s timing and sequencing logic. Monitoring safety relays must be specifi cally designed or confi gurable to interface with each of these types of devices, as they have different electrical characteristics. Some MSRs are completely confi gurable into different types. Some MSRs can connect to a few different types of inputs, but once the device is chosen, the MSR can only interface with that device. The designer must select or confi gure an MSR that is compatible with the input device. Input Impedance The input impedance of the monitoring safety relays determines how many input devices can be connected to the relay and how far away the input devices can be mounted. For example, a safety relay may have a maximum allowable input impedance of 500 ohms. When the input impedance is greater than 500 ohms, it will not switch on its outputs. Care must be taken by the user to ensure that the input impedance remains below the maximum specifi cation. The length, size and type of wire used affects input impedance. Number of Input Devices The risk assessment process should be used to help determine how many input devices should be connected to a monitoring safety relay unit MSR and how often the input devices should be checked. To assure that emergency stops and gate interlocks are in an operational state, they should be checked for operation at regular intervals, as determined by the risk assessment. For example, a dual channel input MSR connected to an interlocked gate that must be opened every machine cycle (e.g., several times per day) may not have to be checked. This is because opening the guard causes the MSR to check itself, its inputs and its outputs (depending on confi guration) for single faults. The more frequent the guard opening the greater the integrity of the checking process. Another example might be emergency stops. Since emergency stops are typically used only for emergencies, they are likely to be rarely used. Therefore a program should be established to exercise the emergency stops and confi rm their effectiveness on a scheduled basis. Exercising the safety system in this way is called performing a functional test. A third example might be access doors for machine 44 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Implementation of Protective Measures adjustments, which like emergency stops might be rarely used. Here again a program should be established to exercise the checking function on a scheduled basis. The risk assessment will help determine whether the input