natural or legal person established in the European Community who has received a written mandate from the manufacturer to perform on his behalf all or part of the obligations and formalities connected with the Machinery Directive. 10 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Regulations The EU Use of Work Equipment Directive (U.W.E.Directive) All machinery must satisfy the Essential Health and Safety Requirements Most machines & safety Machines & safety components (other than components listed in those listed in Annex IV) Annex IV If it DOES If it DOES NOT Must conform CONFORM with CONFORM with relevant Must conform relevant with relevant Harmonised directly with the European OR EHSRs Harmonised Harmonised European European standards standards standards Send the Send the TECHNICAL FILE TECHNICAL to an approved Send equipment to FILE to an body which will an approved body approved body OR examine it and OR for EC TYPE which will issue a EXAMINATION acknowledge its CERTIFICATE OF RECEIPT ADEQUACY for the file It MUST be You must be able submitted to an to assemble the Approved Body for TECHNICAL EC Type FILE on request Examination FOR MACHINERY—You must issue a Declaration of Conformity and affix the CE mark or issue a Declaration of Incorporation. 5 Safety related control systems for machinery L1 L2 L3 K1 K1 Guard Closed K1 K2 RIFD Coded Non-contact Motor Interlock (Hazard) K1 106 potS-E 24V DC* * Class 2 source required Monitoring Safety Relay (DI) K2 0V DC nworB deR eulB wolleY 23S 24S 22S 21S 11S 23Y 12S 1A 2A 31 41 32 42 43S 43S Grey Pink White (Status to PLC) CLP ot sutatS CLP ot sutatS teseR CLP ot sutatS K1 K2 CLP ot sutatS CLP ot sutatS External Switched Stop/Start Circuit Category 4 with RFID actuated electronic non-contact Interlock Contemporary technology has a different approach to achieving a Category 4 architecture (and PLe / SIL 3). The use of complex electronics has enabled the cost effective integration of fault tolerance and a high level of diagnostic coverage into a single device. The interlocking device shown not only achieves Category 4, it also provides an extremely high level of resistance to tampering (overriding) by the use of RFID coding. It can also be connected in series with other similar devices with no lowering of Category or diagnostic coverage. PL (Performance Level) for Component and System Ratings The Designated Architectures (Categories) of (EN) ISO 13849 can be used as part of safety component (device) PL ratings as well as system PL ratings. This generates some confusion that can be clarifi ed by understanding the components and their capabilities. By studying the preceding examples we fi nd that a component such as an interlock switch rated to Category 1 can be used on its own in a Category 1 system. It can also form part of a Category 3 or 4 system if two of the components are used together with a diagnostic function provided by a monitoring safety relay Some components such as monitoring safety relays and programmable safety controllers have their own internal diagnostics and they check themselves to ensure proper performance. Therefore they can be rated as safety components to meet Categories 2, 3 or 4 without any additional measures. MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety-Related Control Systems, Additional Considerations Fault Considerations and Exclusions Safety analysis requires extensive analysis of faults, and a thorough understanding of the performance of the safety system in the presence of faults is needed. ISO 13849-1 and ISO 13849-2 provide details on fault considerations and fault exclusions. If a fault results in a failure of a subsequent component, the fi rst fault and all the subsequent faults shall be considered a single fault. If two or more faults occur as a result of a single cause, the faults shall be considered a single fault. This is known as a common cause fault. The occurrence of two or more independent faults at the same time is considered to be highly unlikely and is not considered in this analysis. Fault Exclusions (EN) ISO 13849-1 and IEC 62061 permit the use of fault exclusions when determining a safety system classifi cation if it can be shown that the occurrence of the fault is extremely unlikely. It is important that where fault exclusions are used that they are properly justifi ed and are valid for the intended lifetime of the safety system. The greater the level of risk protected by the safety system then the more stringent becomes the justifi cation required for the fault exclusion. This has always caused some confusion about when certain types of fault exclusion can or cannot be used. As we have seen already in this chapter, recent standards and guidance documents have clarifi ed some aspects of this issue. In general, where PLe or SIL3 is specifi ed for a safety function to be implemented by a safety system ISO TR 23849 explains that it is not normal to rely upon fault exclusions to achieve this level of performance. This is dependent upon the technology used and the intended operating environment. Therefore it is essential that the designer takes additional care on the use of fault exclusions as that the PL or SIL increases. For example fault exclusion is not applicable to the mechanical aspects of electromechanical position switches and manually operated switches (e.g. an emergency stop device) in order to achieve a PLe or SIL3 system. Those fault exclusions that can be applied to specifi c mechanical fault conditions (e.g. wear/corrosion, fracture) are described in Table A.4 of ISO 13849-2. Therefore a guard interlocking system that has to achieve PLe or SIL3 will need to incorporate a minimum fault tolerance of 1 (e.g. two conventional mechanical position switches) in order to achieve this level of performance since it is not normally justifi able to exclude faults, such as, broken switch actuators. However, it may be acceptable to exclude faults, such as short circuit of wiring within a control panel designed in accordance with relevant standards. 107 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5