room. It is also possible that individual safe machines may be combined together in a manner that could be unsafe. It should also be remembered that if a user company acquires two or more independent machines and integrates them into one process they are the manufacturer of the resulting combined machine. So now let us consider the essential steps on the route to a proper safety strategy. The following can be applied to an existing factory installation or a single new machine. 23 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety related control systems for machinery Risk Assessment It is wrong to regard risk assessment as a burden. It is a helpful process that provides vital information and empowers the user or designer to take logical decisions about ways of achieving safety. There are various standards that cover this subject. (EN) ISO 12100 Safety of machinery — General principles for design — Risk assessment and risk reduction contains the most globally applied guidance. An ISO Technical Report: ISO/TR 14121-2 is also available. It gives practical guidance and examples of methods for risk assessment. Whichever technique is used to carry out a risk assessment, a cross functional team of people will usually produce a result with wider coverage and better balance than one individual. Risk assessment is an iterative process; it will be performed at different stages of the machine life cycle. The information available will vary according to the stage of the life cycle. For example, a risk assessment conducted by a machine builder will have access to every detail of the machine mechanisms and construction materials but probably only an approximate assumption of the machine’s ultimate working environment. A risk assessment conducted by the machine user would not necessarily have access to the in-depth technical details but will have access to every detail of the machines working environment. Ideally the output of one iteration will be the input for the next iteration. Machine Limit Determination This involves collecting and analysing information regarding the parts, mechanisms and functions of a machine. It will also be necessary to consider all the types of human task interaction with the machine and the environment in which the machine will operate. The objective is to get a clear understanding of the machine and its usage. Where separate machines are linked together, either mechanically or by control systems, they should be considered as a single machine, unless they are “zoned” by appropriate protective measures. It is important to consider all limits and stages of the life of a machine including installation, commissioning, maintenance, decommissioning, correct use and operation as well as the consequences of reasonably foreseeable misuse or malfunction. 24 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5 Safety Strategy Task and Hazard Identifi cation All the hazards at the machine must be identifi ed and listed in terms of their nature and location. Types of hazard include crushing, shearing, entanglement, part ejection, fumes, radiation, toxic substances, heat, noise, etc. The results of the task analysis should be compared with the results of the hazard identifi cation. This will show where there is a possibility for the convergence of a hazard and a person i.e. a hazardous situation. All the hazardous situations should be listed. It may be possible that the same hazard could produce different types of hazardous situations depending on the nature of the person or the task. For example, the presence of a highly skilled and trained maintenance technician may have different implications than the presence of an unskilled cleaner who has no knowledge of the machine. In this situation if each case is listed and addressed separately it may be possible to justify different protective measures for the maintenance technician than the ones for the cleaner. If the cases are not listed and addressed separately then the worst case should be used and the maintenance and the cleaner will both be covered by the same protective measure. Sometimes it will be necessary to carry out a general risk assessment on an existing machine that already has protective measures fi tted (e.g., a machine with dangerous moving parts protected by an interlocked guard door). The dangerous moving parts are a potential hazard that may become an actual hazard in the event of failure of the interlocking system. Unless that interlock system has already been validated (e.g., by risk assessment or design to an appropriate standard), its presence should not be taken into account. Risk Estimation This is one of the most fundamental aspects of risk assessment. There are many ways of tackling this subject and the following pages describe the basic principles. Any machinery that has potential for hazardous situations presents a risk of a hazardous event (i.e. of harm). The greater the amount of risk, the more important it becomes to do something about it. At one hazard the risk could be so small that we can tolerate and accept it but at another hazard the risk could be so large that we need to go to extreme measures to protect against it. Therefore in order to make a decision on “if and what to do about the risk,” we need to be able to quantify it. Risk is often thought of solely in terms of the severity of injury at an accident. Both the severity of potential harm AND the probability of its occurrence have to be with the design, supply, purchase or use of industrial equipment within or into the EEA and also certain other European countries should familiarize themselves with their requirements. Most suppliers and users of machinery will simply not be allowed to supply or operate machinery in these countries unless they conform to these directives. There are other European Directives that may have relevance to machinery. Most of them are fairly specialized in their application and are therefore left outside the scope of this section but it is important to note that, where relevant, their requirements must also be met. Examples are: The EMC Directive 2014/30/EC and the ATEX Directive 2014/34/EU. 2 MACHINERY SAFEBOOK 5