assumed that, during foreseeable troubleshooting, one of the movable physical guards (e.g. protective door, maintenance flap) is operated by the machine operator and the fault is masked thereby, the corresponding reduction in the diagnostic coverage DC (fault recognition rate) has to be taken into account. This may lead to the performance level being reduced to PL d or PL c. NOTE For more information, see the special information “Safe series connection” from SICK. Electro-sensitive protective equipment (ESPE) With electro-sensitive protective equipment (ESPE), in contrast to “guards”, protection is not based on the physical separation of persons at risk from the hazard itself. Protection is achieved through temporal separation. As long as there is somebody in a defined area, no dangerous machine functions are initiated, and such functions are stopped if already underway. A certain amount of time, referred to as the “stopping/run-down time”, is required to stop these functions. The ESPE must detect the approach of a person to the hazardous area in a timely manner and depending on the application, the presence of the person in the hazardous area. The international standard IEC 61496-1 defines safety-related manufacturer and user can be derived from this: Operators and maintenance personnel shall be able to rely on the safety of a machine! Safety is a management task Employers in industry are responsible for their employees as well as for smooth, cost-effective production. Only if managers make safety part of everyday business activities will employees be receptive to the subject. To improve sustainability, experts are therefore calling for the establishment of a wide-ranging “safety culture” in the respective companies. Involvement of the employees results in acceptance It is extremely important that the needs of operators and maintenance personnel are taken into consideration in the planning at concept level. Only an intelligent safety concept matched to the work process and the personnel will result in the required acceptance. 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 9 Subject to change without notice FOREWORD Expert knowledge is required In the European Union, national legal requirements are harmonized by European legislation such as the Machinery Directive. Directives describe general requirements that are specified in more detail by standards. The safety of machinery depends to a large extent on the correct application of such standards. European standards are often also accepted outside the European Union. Implementing all these requirements in practice requires extensive specialist knowledge, application expertise, and many years of experience. 10 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice § – LAWS, DIRECTIVES, STANDARDS § – Laws, directives, standards European directives One of the goals of the European Community is the protection of the health of its citizens both in the private and in the professional sphere. A further goal is the creation of a single market with free movement of goods. In order to achieve such goals, the functioning of the European requirements for ESPE independent of their tech‐ nology or principle of operation. What are the benefits of electro-sensitive protective equipment? If an operator frequently or regularly has to access a machine and is therefore exposed to a hazard, the use of an ESPE instead of (mechanical) physical guards (covers, safety fencing, etc.) is advantageous thanks to: • Reduced access time (operator does not have to wait for the guard to open) • Increased productivity (time savings when loading the machine) • Improved workplace ergonomics (operator does not have to operate a physical guard) In addition, operators and others alike are protected. Against what hazards does electro-sensitive protective equipment not protect? Since an electro-sensitive protective equipment does not represent a physical barrier, it is not able to protect persons against emissions such as ejected machine parts, workpieces or chips, ionizing radiation, heat (thermal radiation), noise, sprayed coolant and lubricant, etc. Similarly, ESPE cannot be used on machines on which long stopping/run-down times require minimum distances that cannot be achieved. In such cases, physical guards must be used. ESPE technologies Electro-sensitive protective equipment can implement detection of persons through various principles: optical, capacitive, ultrasound, microwaves (radar) and passive infrared detection. In practice, optical protective devices have been proven over many years and in large numbers (see figure 43, page 70). 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 69 Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Opto-electronic protective devices The most common electro-sensitive protective devices are optoelectronic devices such as: • Safety light curtains and safety light-beam sensors (AOPD: active optoelectronic protective devices) • Safety laser scanners (AOPDDR: active optoelec‐ tronic protective devices responsive to diffuse reflection) • Camera-based protective devices (VBPD: vision based protective devices) Figure 43: Examples of optoelectronic protective devices NOTE An optoelectronic protective device can be used if the operator is not exposed to any danger of injury due to ejected parts (e.g., splashes of molten material). Safety light curtains and safety light-beam sensors (AOPD) AOPDs are protective devices that use optoelectronic transmission and reception elements to detect persons in a defined two-dimensional area. A series of paral‐ lel light beams (normally infrared) transmitted from the sender to the receiver form a protective field that safeguards the hazardous area. Detection occurs when an opaque object fully interrupts one or more beams. The receiver signals the beam interruption by a signal change (OFF state) to its output signal switching devi‐ ces (OSSDs). These signals from the OSSDs are used to stop the dangerous machine functions. The international standard IEC 61496-2 defines safety requirements for AOPDs. Typical AOPDs include safety single-beam sensors, safety multibeam sensors, and safety light curtains. AOPDs with a detection capability of more than 40 mm are called safety multibeam sensors. They are used to protect access to hazardous areas (see figure 44, page 70). Figure 44: Access protection using a safety multibeam sensor AOPDs with a detection capability of 40 mm or less are called safety light curtains and are used to safeguard hazardous points directly (see figure 45). With both safety multibeam