sensors and safety light curtains, rather than all light beams being activated at the same time, they are usually activated and deac‐ tivated in rapid sequence one after the other. This increases resistance to interference from other sour‐ ces of light and increases their reliability accordingly. On state-of-the-art AOPDs, there is automatic synchro‐ nization between sender and receiver through an opti‐ 70 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION cal link. By using microprocessors, the beams can be evaluated individually. This enables additional ESPE functions to be implemented in addition to the pro‐ tective function itself ("Additional functions of ESPE", page 81). Figure 45: Hazardous point protection using a safety light curtain Safety laser scanners (AOPDDR) AOPDDRs are protective devices that use optoelectronic sender and receiver elements to detect the reflection of optical radiation generated by the protective device. This reflection is generated by an object in a predefined two-dimensional area. Detection is signaled by a signal change (OFF state) to its output signal switching devices (OSSDs). These signals from the OSSDs are used to stop the dangerous machine functions. A safety laser scanner is an optical sensor which monitors a hazardous area on a machine or vehicle by scanning the area around it on a single plane with infrared light beams. The safety laser scanner operates on the principle of optical time-of-flight measurement. The scanner sends very short light pulses (S) while an “electronic stop‐ watch” runs simultaneously. If the light strikes an object, it is reflected and received by the scanner (R). The scanner calculates the distance from the object from the difference between the send and receive times. A uniformly rotating mirror (M) in the scanner deflects the light pulses such that a sector of a circle is covered. Person The scanner then determines the exact position of the object from the measured distance and the angle of rotation of the mirror. Figure 46: Basic structure of a laser scanner 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 71 Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION The area in which object detection leads to trigger‐ ing (protective field) can be configured by the user via a graphical user interface. Modern scanners sup‐ port simultaneous and separate monitoring of multiple areas by evaluating fields simultaneously and by com‐ municating with the controller through multiple safe cut-off paths. This feature can be used, for example, to adapt the monitored area to the speed of a vehicle. Safety laser scanners use individually emitted pulses of light in precise directions and do not continuously cover the area to be monitored. Resolutions (detection capabilities) up to 20 mm are achieved through this operating principle. With the active scanning principle, safety laser scanners do not need external receivers or reflectors. Safety laser scanners also have to be able to reliably detect objects with extremely low reflec‐ tivity (e.g., black work clothing). The international stand‐ ard IEC 61496-3 states the safety requirements for AOPDDRs. Figure 47: Simultaneous monitoring of multiple protective fields Camera-based protective devices (VBPD) VBPDs are camera-based protective devices and use image capturing and processing technologies for safety detection of persons (see figure 48). Various principles can be used to detect persons, including: • Interruption of the light retro-reflected by a retro- reflector • Travel time measurement of the light reflected by an object • Monitoring of changes from background patterns • Detection of persons based on human characteris‐ tics The various technical specifications (TS) and technical reports (TR) of the IEC 61496-4 series of standards contain the requirements and characteristics of VBPDs. Figure 48: Protecting people when leaning into the hazardous area of a collaborative robot using a 3D vision-based camera system Detection capability (resolution) of optoelectronic protective devices The detection capability is defined as the limit for the sensor parameter that causes the electro-sensitive protec‐ tive equipment (ESPE) to trigger. In practice, this is about the size of the smallest object detected by the ESPE within the defined monitored area (protective field). 72 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION The detection capability is specified by the manufacturer. In general, the detection capability is determined from the sum of the beam separation and effective beam diameter. This ensures that an object of this size always covers a light beam and is always detected regardless of its position in the protective field. For safety laser scanners (AOPDDR), the detection capability is dependent of the distance to the object, the angle between the individual beams of light (pulse), and the shape and size of the transmitted beam. The reliability of the detection capability is determined by the type classification in the IEC 61496 series of standards (see table 28, page 75). Preventing reflections from AOPDs For AOPDs, the light beam is focused from the sender. The aperture angle of the lens is reduced as far as possible so that disturbance-free operation can even be ensured in the event of minor alignment errors. The same applies to the aperture angle of the receiver (effective aperture angle according to IEC 61496-2). But even for smaller aperture angles, there is the possi‐ bility for light beams from the sender to be deflected from reflective surfaces, thus leading to a failure to detect an object (see figure 49, see figure 50). Therefore, all reflective surfaces and objects (e.g. mate‐ rial containers, reflective floors) have to maintain a min‐ imum distance a from the protective field of the system Figure 49: The person is detected reliably and the dangerous (see table 28, page 75). movement is stopped. This minimum distance a depends on the distance D between the sender and receiver (protective field width). The minimum distance must be maintained on all sides of the protective field. Figure 50: Reflection hinders detection by the ESPE and the dangerous movement is not stopped. 8007988/2024-10-21