than by design measures: • Locating the emergency stop device away from foreseeably busy areas • Mounting the emergency stop device in a recessed surface of the enclosing operator panel • Selecting a suitable type of emergency stop device • Selecting the appropriate size and shape of the emergency stop device The use of a protective collar around the emergency stop device should be avoided. An exception exists if unintentional actuation must be prevented and other measures are not practicable. Protective collars must not have any sharp corners or edges or rough surfaces and must not hinder or prevent operation with the palm of the hand. This applies from any foreseeable position of the machine operator or other persons who must be able to operate it (nearby operator or work stations). Emergency stop control switches in portable operator panels When emergency stop control switches are installed in portable operator panels, measures must be used to avoid confusion between active and non-active emergency stop control switches. This also applies to operator panels where the emergency stop commands are transmitted via plug connections on the controller. At least one of the following measures must be used: • Identification of the active emergency stop control switches through a color change by means of illumination • Covering the inactive emergency stop control switches, if possible automatically • Provision of suitable storage for the inactive operator panels Emergency switching off (switching off in an emergency situation - IEC 60204-1) Provision should be made for emergency switching off if there is a possibility of hazards or damage caused by electrical energy. The incoming electrical energy supply should be switched off by electromechanical switching devices. 92 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION It shall not be possible to switch on the incoming energy supply until all emergency off commands have been reset. The emergency switching off is achieved with stop category 0 ("Stopping", page 35). NOTE - Design guidelines for emergency stop devices: ISO 13850 (type-B standard) - Emergency shutdown: Machinery Directive 2006/42/EC Positioning and sizing of protective devices It must be ensured that the dangerous state can be eliminated in good time before the hazardous point is reached. This requires the protective device to be positioned at the required minimum distance from the hazardous point. The necessary minimum distance also depends on the properties of the protective device. This can also affect the selection of the optimal protective device. Start Select type of protection Determine response times stopping/run-down times Calculate minimum distance Is the No minimum distance practical? Yes Protective field size, height, position of protective field Yes Has a suitable No End solution been found? Figure 77: Basic procedure for positioning and sizing a protective device 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 93 Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Minimum distance of the protective field of an ESPE depending on the type of approach Table 32: Approach types and minimum distance for ESPE S Hazardous area S Hazardous area Hazardous area S β H H Approach at right angles to the plane of Approach parallel to the plane of the Approach at any angle to the plane of the protective field. protective field. the protective field. The consideration of the minimum safety distance applies to ESPEs with two-dimensional protective fields, e.g., light curtains, single-beam photoelectric safety switches (AOPD), laser scanners (AOPDDR), or two-dimensional camera systems. There are three types of approach. After the stop initiating ESPE has been selected, the required minimum distance between the ESPE’s protective field and the nearest hazardous point is to be calculated. The following parameters shall be taken into account: • Stopping time of the machine • Response time of the safety-related control system • Response time of the protective device (ESPE) • Supplements according to the resolution capability of the ESPE, the protective field height, and/or the type of approach as well as the possibility of bypassing the protective field by reaching around, over or under it (see table 40, page 103). If the minimum distance to the hazardous area is too large and unacceptable from an ergonomic viewpoint, either the overall stopping time of the machine must be reduced or an ESPE with a better detection capability (smaller resolution) chosen. Risks due to a person possibly remaining undetected between the protective field of the ESPE and the hazardous point must be avoided by taking suitable measures against unexpected start-up: • Restart interlocks that require a manual reset • Additional device for detecting persons in the hazardous area (see table 40, page 103) NOTE The calculation of the minimum distance S for ESPE is described in the ISO 13855 standard (type-B standard). General calculation formula S = (K × T) + C S Minimum distance in millimeters, measured from the nearest hazardous point to the detection zone of the ESPE. K Parameter in millimeters per second, derived from the data for the approach speeds of the body or parts of the body. T Stopping/run-down time for the entire system in seconds. C Additional distance in millimeters that represents the entry into the hazardous area before the protective device is triggered. Supplement determined by resolution C RT 8 × (d–14) Depending its detection capability (resolution), the ESPE may trigger (detect a person) when parts of the body have already passed the protective field. 94 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION This must be taken into account by adding the supplement determined by the resolution C (RT = Reach Through). RT C =0 C C RT RT RT Figure 78: The figure shows an example of undetected intrusion (C ) for safety light curtains with different detection capabili‐ RT ties. Protective devices that can be reached over Depending on the height and position of the protective field of an ESPE, the shape