activities. Lock-Out involves applying protective measures. a physical lock to all hazardous energy sources on the equip- A hazardous productivity — using modern methods, the opposite is actually possible. • Higher levels of safety result in increased motivation and satisfaction and, as a result, higher productivity. Safety is a management task It is very important that the needs of operators, maintenance process and the personnel will result in the necessary accep- personnel and others are included in the planning at concept tance. level. Only an intelligent safety concept matched to the work Involvement of the employees results in acceptance Decision-makers in industry are responsible for their employ- To improve sustainability, experts are therefore calling for ees as well as for smooth, cost-effective production. Only if the establishment of a wide-ranging “safety culture” in the managers make safety part of everyday business activities will organization. And not without reason: after all, most accidents employees be receptive to the subject. are due to human error. To reduce accidents, experts call for a wide-ranging “safety culture” within the organization. Expert knowledge is required The safety of machinery depends to a large extent on the cor- directives describe general requirements that are specified in rect application of regulations and standards. Such regulations more detail by standards. European standards are also often describe general requirements that are specified in more detail accepted outside Europe. by standards. Standards are updated regularly and represent Implementing all these requirements in a practical manner accepted solutions for safety. requires extensive expert knowledge, application knowledge, In Europe, national legal requirements are harmonized through and many years of experience. European directives such as the Machinery Directive. These “Everyone, and that includes you and me, is at some time careless, complacent, overconfident and stubborn. At times, each of us becomes distracted, inattentive, bored and fatigued. We occasionally take chances, we misunderstand, we misinterpret and we misread. These are completely human characteristics. energy control program is a critical part of an over- ment after they have been shut off and de-energized. Energy all safety strategy and should include: sources can be mechanical, electrical, pneumatic or hydraulic. • Annual training and audits The source is then Tagged-Out with an easy-to-read tag that • Machine Specific LOTO procedures as part of the manual alerts other workers in the area that a lock has been applied. 1 (see general checklist) Some minor servicing operations like minor tool changes or • Corporate policy adjustments may have to be performed during normal produc- Lock-Out/Tag-Out (LOTO) is supplementing – not substituting – tion operations, and an employer may be exempt from LOTO in proper machine safeguarding. some instances. Operations are not covered by LOTO if they are 2 - OSHA Booklet 3120: Control of Hazardous Energy Lock-Out/Tag-Out - OSHA Standard 29 CFR 1910.147, Control of hazardous energy (Lock-Out/Tag-Out) - ANSI/ASSE Z244.1, Control of Hazardous Energy — Lockout/Tagout and Alternative Methods - CSA Z460, Control of Hazardous Energy — Lockout and Other Methods Lock-Out/Tag-Out Checklist (Source NIOSH) When performing Lock-Out/Tag-Out on equipment, you can use the checklist below. • Identify all sources of energy for the equipment or circuits in question. • Disable backup energy sources such as generators and batteries. • Identify all shut-offs for each energy source. • Notify all personnel that equipment and circuitry must be shut off, locked out, and tagged out. (Simply turning a switch off is NOT enough.) • Shut off energy sources and lock switchgear in the OFF position. Each worker should apply his or her individual lock. Do not give your key to anyone. • Test equipment and circuitry to make sure they are de-energized. This must be done by a qualified person.* • Deplete stored energy by bleeding, blocking, grounding, etc. • Apply a tag to alert other individuals that an energy source or piece of equipment has been locked out. • Make sure everyone is safe and accounted for before equipment and circuits are unlocked and turned back on. Note that only a qualified person* may determine when it is safe to re-energize circuits. *OSHA designates a “qualified person” as someone who has received mandated training on the hazards and on the construction and operation of equipment involved in a task. 2-10 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Safe design Stop functions Along with the stopping of a machine during normal operation, Stop categories it shall also be possible to stop a machine in an emergency Safety-related and function-related aspects in machines result situation for safety reasons. in stop functions in various categories. Stop Categories as defined in NFPA 79 and IEC 60204-1 are not to be mistaken for Requirements the categories defined in ISO 13849-1. • Every machine shall be equipped with a control for stopping the machine in normal operation. An uncontrolled stop by immediately removing power • A Category 0 stop function shall be available as a minimum. Stop Category 0 to the machine actuators (drive elements) 1 Additional Category 1 and/or 2 stop functions may be A controlled stop with power to the machine necessary for safety-related or function-related reasons on Stop Category 1 tactuators available to achieve the stop, then remove the machine. power when the stop is achieved • A command to stop the machine shall have a higher priority Stop Category 2 A controlled stop with power left available to the machine actuators than the commands for putting the machine into operation. If the machine or its dangerous parts has/have been shut down, the supply of power to the drive shall be interrupted. 2 - Stop functions: NFPA 79, IEC 60204-1 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 2-11 Subject to change without notice Safe design Risk reduction Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) The European EMC Directive defines “electromagnetic compat- There are interference limits for the industrial sector and for ibility” as “the ability of a device, unit of equipment or system residential areas. In the industrial sector, the requirements for to function satisfactorily in its electromagnetic