corresponding pattern of the material or material carrier (e.g., pallet) from a signals from the machine controller and adequately positioned person. sensors. The contour of the protective field is designed so that 1 By using self-teaching dynamic blanking, as well as other differ- passage of the material does not cause the protective device entiation criteria such as direction of movement, speed, entry to activate and any unmonitored areas are small enough to and exit in the protective field, etc., a safety-relevant distinction prevent undetected access to the hazard zone (see figure). can be made. In this way, undetected entry into the hazard zone can be reliably prevented (see figure). 2 3 c Material throughput with safety laser scanners, vertical protective fields, and protective field switching with suitably arranged sensors. Entry/exit function with horizontally installed safety light curtain in a processing station on an automobile assembly line. 3-36 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Additional functions of ESPE Blanking Criteria for fixed and floating blanking For many AOPDs, configuration of the detection capability and/ To prevent gaps in the protective field, the presence (or in or protective field can be designed such that the presence of some cases, a change in the size or position) of an object can one or more objects within a defined section of the protective trigger the safety function (OFF state). field does not trigger the safety function (OFF state). Blanking can be used to allow specific objects through the protective Fixed blanking Floating blanking field, e.g., hose for cooling lubricant, slide/carrier for workpiec- Fixed blanking Fixed blanking Floating blank- Floating es (see figure). with increased ing with com- blanking with size tolerance plete object partial object monitoring monitoring An object of On one side of An object of An object of fixed size must the fixed blank- fixed size must limited size is be at a specific ing an object be within a spe- allowed in a point in the of limited size cific area of the specific area of protective field. is allowed to protective field. the protective move through The object is al- field. The ob- the protective lowed to move. ject is allowed field. to move. 3 c Fixed blanking of light curtain beams on a trimming press. In the blanked area, the resolution capability of the ESPE is enlarged (deteriorates). Take this into account when calcu- lating the minimum distance. For fixed blanking, the blanked area is precisely defined in terms of its size and position. In the case of floating blanking, only the size of the blanked area is defined, not its position in the protective field (see figure). 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 3-37 Subject to change without notice Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Risk reduction PSDI mode It is necessary to check that no hazard to the operator can Use of the protective device to trigger the machine function arise during the work process. This limits the use of this operat- (controlling protective device) is described as Presence Sensing ing mode on machines in which there is no possibility for whole § Device Initiation (PSDI) mode. This operating mode is advanta- body access and it is not possible for the operator to remain geous if parts must be manually loaded and unloaded cycli- undetected between the protective field and the machine cally. (prevention against trespassing e.g., using a presence sensing ESPE or mechanical obstruction). Conforming to international standards, PSDI mode can only be executed with type 4 AOPDs and an effective resolution d ≤ 30 Single break PSDI mode means that the AOPD initiates the mm. In PSDI mode, the machine waits at a defined position for machine function after the operator has completed one inter- 1 a specified number of interruptions by the operator. The safety vention. light curtain releases the dangerous movement again automati- Double break PSDI mode means that the AOPD holds the cally after a specific number of interruptions. machine function in the locked state after the operator’s first The ESPE has to be reset under the following conditions: intervention (e.g., removal of a machined workpiece). Only after the operator has completed the second intervention (e.g., feed- • When the machine starts ing in of a blank) does the safety light curtain release the 2 • On restart when the AOPD is interrupted within a dangerous machine function again. movement • If no PSDI was triggered within the specified PSDI time PSDI mode is often used on presses and stamps, but can also be used on other machines (e.g., rotary tables, automatic assembly systems). When using PSDI mode, the light curtain must not be trespassable. For presses, special conditions apply 3 for PSDI mode. c For PSDI mode, the resolution of the AOPD shall be less than or equal to 30 mm (finger or hand detection). According to OSHA 29 CFR 1910.217 at the time of print- ing, PSDI is not allowed on mechanical power presses in the U.S. or U.S. territories. Please check your local authority for applicability of PSDI. Single break PSDI mode on an automatic assembly system with a safety light curtain. During loading, the tool is in the open position. After the operator leaves the protective field, the assembly cycle begins. - PSDI mode: B-type standards ANSI B11.19, CSA Z432, ISO 13855, IEC 61496-1, UL 61496-1 - PSDI mode on presses: C-type standards OSHA 1910.217, ANSI B11.1, ANSI B11.2, ANSI B11.3, CSA Z142, NR-12, EN 692, EN 693 - PSDI mode on robots: C-type standards RIA TR R15.406, CSA Z434 3-38 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Fixed position protective devices Fixed position protective devices provide risk reduction by ensuring the position of a person or parts of the body outside the hazard zone. A comprehensive overview of fixed position protective devices is given in: ➜ Alfred Neudörfer: Konstruieren sicherheitsgerechter Produkte (Designing Safety-related Products), Springer-Verlag,