in these zones II 2G EEx ia IIC T4 Example: Marking of an item of equipment as per ATEX Temperature class Can be used at ignition temperature > 135 °C Explosion group Acetylene, carbon disulfide, hydrogen Protection principle i = intrinsically safe a = two-fault safe Device category (ATEX) Can be used in zone 1 Device group Not for use in areas where there is a risk of firedamp Explosion protection marking - Directive 1994/9/EC (ATEX 95 – manufacturer) ATEX standard EN 1127-1 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 2-15 Subject to change without notice Safe design Risk reduction Summary: Safe design Mechanics, electronics, operation • Keep to the principle of not allowing hazards to occur in the first place. • Design so that the operators are exposed to the hazard zone as little as possible. • Avoid dangers produced directly due to electrical power (direct and indirect contact) or produced indirectly due to faults in the control system. Emergency operation, stopping/shutting down 1 • Plan a control for stopping the machine in normal operation. • Use an emergency stop to shut down a dangerous process or a dangerous movement. • Use emergency switching off if power supplies that produce a hazard need to be safely isolated. • Establish a hazardous energy control program (Lock-Out/Tag-Out). EMC • Design machines that meet applicable EMC requirements. The components used shall be selected and verified so that: 2 • They do not cause electromagnetic interferences that affect other devices or systems. • They are themselves immune to the disturbances to be expected. 2-16 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Technical protective measures Risk reduction Technical protective measures Step 3: Technical protective measures Technical protective measures, also Functional safety known as engineering controls, are Where the effect of a protective measure implemented with: is dependent on the correct function of • Protective devices that are part of a a control system, the term “functional safety function, e.g., covers, doors, safety” is used. To implement functional light curtains, two-hand controls safety, safety functions shall be defined. • Monitoring units (monitoring position, After this, the required safety level shall speed, etc.) or be determined and then implemented 1 • Measures to reduce emissions. with the correct components and subse- quently verified. Not all protective devices are integrated into the machine’s control system. For Validation example, a fixed guard (barrier, cover) The validation of all engineering control which does not need to be removed measures ensures the correct safety frequently may achieve adequate risk functions have a reliable effect. reduction by the correct design of the The design of protective measures and guard alone. safety functions and the methodology for their implementation in the control sys- tem form the content of the next chapter (sub-steps 3a to 3e). 3 Start Definition of the safety functions 3a ➜ 3-2 Determination of the required safety level 3b ➜ 3-9 Design of the safety concept ➜ 3-13 Selection of the protective devices 3c ➜ 3-18 Integration of protective device into the control system ➜ 3-65 Verification of the safety function 3d ➜ 3-79 Validation of all safety functions 3e ➜ 3-95 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 3-1 Subject to change without notice Technical protective measures Risk reduction Step 3a: Definition of the safety functions The safety functions define how risks to achieve the required risk reduction are reduced by engineering controls. A with reasonable effort. The type and safety function shall be defined for each number of components required for the hazard that has not been eliminated by function are derived from the definition the design. It is necessary to provide a of the safety function. precise description of the safety function - Examples for the definition of safety functions: BGIA Report 2/2008e, “Func- 1 tional safety of machine controls" Permanently preventing access Access to a hazardous point is prevented by means of mechanical cov- ers, barriers, or obstacles (referred to as guards). Examples: • Prevention of direct access to hazardous 3 points using covers • Distancing protective a devices (e.g., tunnels) to prevent access to the hazardous points and allow the passage of materials or goods (see figure) • Prevention of access to hazard zones by using guards In this chapter ... Permanently preventing access....3-2 Temporarily preventing access.....3-2 Retaining parts/substances/ Temporarily preventing access radiation.......................3-3 Access to a hazardous Initiating a stop .................3-3 point is prevented until Avoiding unexpected startup ......3-4 the machine is in a safe Preventing start.................3-4 state. Combination of initiating a stop/ Example: preventing start.................3-4 • On request, a machine Allowing material passage ........3-5 stop is initiated. When Monitoring machine parameters ...3-5 the machine reaches the safe state, the Disabling safety functions blocking of access manually and for a limited time....3-6 by the safety locking Combining or switching safety device is released. functions ......................3-6 Emergency stop.................3-7 Safety-relevant indications and alarms.....................3-7 Other functions .................3-8 Summary......................3-8 3-2 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Technical protective measures Retaining parts/substances/radiation If parts can be ejected from machines or radiation may occur, mechanical protective devices (guards) must be used to pre- vent the hazards that occur in these situations. Examples: • Safety cover with special observation window on a milling machine for protection from flying chips and parts of work- pieces (see figure) 1 • Fence that can retain a robot arm 3 a Initiating a stop A safety-related stop function places the machine in a safe state on demand (e.g., approach of a person). To reduce the required stopping time, a stop function which complies with stop Category 1 (NFPA 79 and EN 60204-1 g 2-11) may be applied. Additional safety functions may be necessary to pre- vent unexpected start-up. Examples: • Opening a protective door with an interlock that has no lock- ing function • Interrupting the light beams on a multiple light beam safety device providing access protection (see figure) 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 3-3 Subject to