safety standards), and C­type standards (standards on the safety of machinery). If a C-type standard exists, it has priority over the A-type or B­type standard. Testing laboratory: • Regulations may require the use of products certified by recognized testing laboratories. §§--1166 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk assessment The risk assessment process Risk assessment The risk assessment process Step 1: Risk assessment When designing, modifying or using a tive measures . A new risk should not machine, the possible risks must be ana- result from the application of protec- lyzed and, where necessary, additional tive measures, otherwise it to must be protective measures must be taken to assessed and reduced . The repetition protect the operator from any hazards of the entire process (risk assessment that may exist . and risk reduction) may be necessary to To aid the machine manufacturer with eliminate hazards as far as possible and this task, the standards define and to sufficiently reduce the risks identified 1 describe the process of risk assessment . or newly emerged . When possible, the A “risk assessment” is a sequence of user should participate in the supplier’s logical steps that facilitate the system- risk assessment of the machine design . atic analysis and evaluation of risks . The In many C-type standards, the risk as- machine must be designed and built sessment is defined to suit the specific taking into account the results of the risk machine and application . If no C-type assessment . standards are applicable or they are in- Where necessary, a risk assessment sufficient, the requirements in the A-type is followed by risk reduction, which is and B-type standards can be used . achieved by applying suitable protec- - Safe design, risk assessment, and risk reduction: ISO 12100, ANSI B11 .0, ANSI/PMMI B155 .1, CSA Z432 The risk assessment process Start End No In this chapter ... The risk assessment process . . . . . . 1-1 Functions of the machine . . . . . . . . . 1-3 Identification of hazards . . . . . . . . . . 1-4 Risk estimation and evaluation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1-5 Documentation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1-6 Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1-7 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 1-1 Subject to change without notice 0.11B ISNA htiw ecnadrocca ni tnemssessa ksiR Functions of the machine (definition of limits) g 1-3 Identification of tasks g 1-3 Identification of hazards g 1-4 Risk estimation g 1-5 Risk evaluation g 1-6 Has the risk been Yes reasonably reduced? Risk reduction process g 2-1 • The process must be performed for all hazards. It must be repeated (iterative process) until the remaining residual risk is acceptably low . • The results achieved during the risk assessment and the procedure applied are to be documented . The risk assessment process Risk assessment Using an iterative process and considering personnel The process of performing a risk assessment and risk reduc- Also consider that personnel potentially affected by the tasks and tion strategy for a machine or system is an iterative process . hazards associated with the machine / system could include: After the initial risk reduction strategy has been implemented, • Operators or helpers • Passers-by it is imperative that the task and associated hazard be re- • Maintenance personnel • Designers evaluated based on the additional protective measure and • Engineers • Manager a new risk estimation is determined . If the subsequent risk • Technicians • Supervisors estimation determines that residual risk is viewed as “accept- • Sales personnel • Safety personnel 1 able,” then the next task and associated hazard are evaluated. • Installation personnel • Safety committees If the residual risk is not determined to be acceptable, then • Removal personnel • Safety consultants implementation of additional risk reduction measures should • Administrative personnel • Loss control administrators occur followed by a new risk estimation . This iterative process • Trainees • And others repeats until the residual risk is viewed as acceptable . Other factors that should be considered • The level of training and experience of each personnel type • Reliability of safety functions, including mechanical, electri- shown above cal, hydraulic, and pneumatic control system integrity • Machine task history, including statistical data, history of • Potential for circumvention of protective measures, including harm, history of “near misses” incentives to defeat protective measures e .g ., protective mea- • Workplace environment related to layout, lighting, noise, sure prevents task from being performed, protective measure ventilation, temperature, humidity, etc . may slow down production, protective measure may interfere • The ability to maintain protective measures required to with other activities or may be difficult to use. provide adequate level of protection • Human factors — e .g ., errors resulting from omitting steps in the process, adding steps or performing steps out of se- quence, personnel interaction, ability to execute required tasks, motivation to deviate from established safety proce- dures, accumulated exposure, and reduced vision . 1-2 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk assessment Functions of the machine Risk assessment Functions of the machine Functions of the machine (definition of limits) The risk assessment starts with the definition of the functions Foreseeable misuse of the machine . These may include: Reasonably assumable, unintentional actions of the operator or • The specification for the machine (what is produced, maxi- foreseeable misuse may include: mum production performance, materials to be used) • Loss of control of the machine by the operator (particularly • Physical limits and expected place of use on hand-held or portable machinery) • Planned life limit • Reflex actions