Braking systems and holding systems are also to be taken into account on axes subject to gravity. The actual motor is not part of the assessment. Servo amplifiers and frequency inverters In drive technology, three-phase motors with frequency inverters have largely replaced DC drives. The inverter generates an output voltage of variable frequency and amplitude from the fixed three-phase mains. Depending on design, regulated rectifiers can feed the energy absorbed by the intermediate circuit during braking back to the mains. The rectifier converts the electrical power supplied from the mains and feeds it to the DC intermediate circuit. To perform the required control function, the inverter forms a suitable revolving field for the motor using pulse-width modulation and semiconductor switches. The usual switching frequencies are between 4 kHz and 12 kHz. Motor 3 (1) 3 Rectifier Intermediate link Inverter U, f ≠ constant Figure 104: Design of circuits with servo and frequency converters To limit transient overvoltages caused by switching loads in DC and AC circuits, interference suppression compo‐ nents are to be used, in particular if sensitive electronic assemblies are being used in the same control cabinet. Checklist • Mains filter fitted to the frequency inverter? • Sinusoidal filter or parts of the machinery or if harmonized standards have not been applied, conformity can only be achieved as follows: EC type examination by a notified body ° Use of a full quality management system (QMS) that has been assessed ° 14 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice § – LAWS, DIRECTIVES, STANDARDS Marking of the machine as conforming to the European directives (“CE conform”) Once all the requirements have been met and before the machine within the scope of the Machinery Directive is placed on the market, the CE marking shall be applied to the machine. NOTE The CE marking can only be affixed if the machine meets all applicable European directives. Only a machine with the CE marking is allowed to be placed on the market in the European Union. Special case: Partly completed machinery In many cases, parts of machines, machine assemblies, or machine components are manufactured and delivered that are very close to the definition of a machine but cannot be considered complete machines in the context of the Machinery Directive. The Machinery Directive defines as “partly completed machinery” an assembly of components that almost form a machine, but that on their own cannot perform any specific function. An individual industrial robot, for example, is a partly completed machine. A partly completed machine is only intended to be installed in other machinery or in other partly completed machinery or equipment, or to be combined with such machinery or equipment in order to form a machine in the context of the Directive. Partly completed machinery cannot meet all requirements of the Machinery Directive. Therefore, the Machinery Directive regulates their free trade using a special procedure: • The manufacturer shall meet all reasonably achievable essential health and safety requirements fitted to the output circuit on the inverter? • Connection cables as short as possible and shielded? • Components and screens connected to earth/equipment earthing conductor using large area connections? • Commutation choke connected in series for peak current limiting? Safety functions on servo amplifiers and frequency inverters Different cut-off paths are possible when implementing the safety function: Drive Motor Figure 105: Safety-relevant elements and functions for circuits with servo and frequency inverters 1 Mains contactor – poor due to long re-energization time, high wear due to the current on the switch 2 Controller enable – not safety-related 3 Pulse inhibit “safe restart interlock (stop)” 4 Setpoint – not safety-related 5 Motor contactor – not allowed on all inverters 6 Retaining brake – normally not a functional brake The contribution of the drive to the safety function can be implemented in various ways: • By disconnecting the supply of power, e.g., using a mains contactor 1 or a motor contactor 5 • By external monitoring circuits, e.g., by monitoring an encoder • By safety sub-functions integrated directly in the drive ("Safety sub-functions integrated in the drive", page 121) 120 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Disconnection of the supply of power When using inverters, the energy stored in the intermediate circuit's capacitors and the energy produced by a regenerative braking process must be taken into account in the risk assessment. During the consideration of the residual travel, it is to be assumed that the motion control system does not initiate a brake ramp. After shutdown, the drive continues running at more or less the same speed, depending on the friction (stop category 0). The use of a brake ramp by changing the setpoint and/or controller enable and subsequent shutdown of the contactor or the pulse inhibit (stop category 1) can reduce the braking distance. t Emergency stop Speed Mains contactor Figure 106: Disconnection of the supply of power by the mains contactor after emergency stop and initiation of a braking ramp Speed detection with external monitoring units To monitor the drive, external monitoring units require various signals providing information about the current movement parameters. In this case the signal sources are sensors and encoders. These must either be designed as safe sensors or with redundancy, depending on the required safety level PL or SIL. Alternatively, standstill monitoring can also be implemented by reading back the voltage induced by the motor coasting down. This technique also functions with speed-controlled drives. Safety sub-functions integrated in the drive Safety functions are implemented by safety-related parts of control systems (SRP/CS). They include the sub-func‐ tions of measuring (sensor), processing (logic unit), and switching or actuation (power control element). In this context, safety-related functions integrated in the drive are to be considered safety sub-functions. They are generally divided into two groups: • Safety-related stopping and braking functions: These functions are used to stop the drive safely (e.g., safe stop). •