change without notice Technical protective measures Risk reduction Avoiding unexpected startup After actuating the “initiating a stop” function or switching the machine on, specific actions are required to put the machine into operation. These actions include manually resetting a pro- tective device to prepare for restarting the machine (see also section “Application of reset and restart”g 3-64). Examples: • Resetting the emergency stop device 1 • Resetting an optoelectronic protective device (see figure: Blue “Reset” button) • Restarting the machine once all the necessary protective devices are effective Preventing start 3 After an “initiating a stop” function, technical measures prevent the machine from starting or being put back into operation as a long as there are persons in the hazard zone. Examples: • Trapped key systems • Detection in the active protective field of a horizontal safety light curtain (see figure). The “initiating a stop” function is implemented by the protective field of the vertical safety light curtain. Combination of initiating a stop/preventing start Restart is prevented using the same protective device that initi- ates the stop as long as there are people or parts of the body detected in the hazard zone Examples: • A two-hand control on single-person workplaces • Use of a light curtain so that standing behind or reaching around is not possible (hazardous point protection) • Use of a safety laser scanner for area protection (see figure) 3-4 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Technical protective measures Allowing material passage To move materials in or out of the hazard zone, specific features of the materials moved are used for material detection or to automatically differentiate between material and people. The protective device is then not actuated during material transport, however, people are detected. Examples: • Selecting suitable sensors and placing them in appropriate 1 positions allows the material to be detected and the safety function is Because we are human and because all of these traits are fundamental and built into each of us, the equipment, machines and systems that we construct for our use have to be made to accommodate us the way we are, and not vice versa.” -Al Chapanis, former Professor of Human Factors Engineering, Johns Hopkins University. EE--44 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Laws, regulations, directives, standards Regulations Laws, regulations, directives, standards Regulations U.S. regulatory requirements Worker safety regulations in the The OSHA General Duty Clause states in § United Sta tes are enforced through Section 5a that each employer: the Occupational Safety and Health 1. Shall furnish to each of his employees Administration (OSHA). The United States Con­ employment and a place of employment gress, through the Occupational Safety and which are free from recognized hazards that Health Act, establ ished OSHA on December are causing or are likely to cause death or 29, 1970. serious physical harm to his employees; The goal of this act was to ensure safe and 2. Shall comply with occupational safety and healthy working conditions for working men health standards promulgated under this and women by: Act. • Authorizing enforcement of the require­ Occupational and Health Requirements in the ments developed under the Act United States are defined in Title 29 of the The requirements for the safety • By assisting and encouraging the States Code of Federal Regulations Part 1910, which of machinery as for the use of in their efforts to assure safe and healthy is broken down into a number of subp arts. protective devices are defined by working conditions Subpart O deals specifically with Machinery differing legislative stipulations • By providing for research, information, and Machine Guarding and defin es general re­ and technical suspended for a limited time while the material passes through (muting) • Horizontal light curtains with integrated algorithm for per- son/material differentiation (see figure) • Protective field switching on a safety laser scanner - For more detailed information, see section “Safety functions that can be integrated in ESPE” g 3-35. Monitoring machine parameters 3 In some applications it is necessary to monitor various machine a parameters for safety-related limits. If a limit is exceeded, suit- able measures are initiated (e.g., stop, warning signal). Examples: • Monitoring of speed, temperature, or pressure • Position monitoring (see figure) 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 3-5 Subject to change without notice Technical protective measures Risk reduction Disabling safety functions manually and for a limited time Certain operations, such as set-up or process monitoring, may require the machine to operate with a guard displaced or re- moved and/or a protective device disabled. In these instances, additional measures must be provided for risk reduction and may only be allowed if the follow conditions are met: • An operating mode selector switch capable of supervisory control (e.g., key switch) with a corresponding operating posi- 1 tion shall be used • Automatic control shall be disabled and there shall be no movement of the machine due to direct or indirect activation of sensors • No linked sequences shall be possible • Hazardous machine functions shall only be possible with hold-to-run controls (devices requiring sustained action, such as two-hand control or enabling devices) • Hazardous machine functions are only permitted under reduced risk conditions (e.g., limitation of speed, force, movement distance, duration of function) • All individuals exposed to the hazardous machine function 3 must be provided with and be in direct control of their own control device a Example: • Movement only at reduced speed with enabling button engaged and +/- buttons actuated (see figure) Combining or switching safety functions A machine can adopt various states or work in various operat- ing modes. During this process, different safety measures may be effective or different safety functions coupled together. By means of control functions, it must be ensured that the required level of safety is always achieved. Switching between operating modes or the selection and adjustment of different safety measures shall not lead to a dangerous state. Examples: