Berlin u. a., ISBN 978-3642191886 (4th Edition 2011) Two-hand controls A two-hand control only protects one person! If there are sev- The following provisions also apply in the case of type III two- eral operators, each person must actuate a separate two-hand hand controls: control. A hazardous machine function shall only be initiated • Hazardous machine functions may only resume once both by intended actuation of the two-hand control and shall stop as control actuating devices (pushbuttons) have been operated soon as a hand releases the control device. synchronously within 0.5 seconds. There are various types of two-hand control. The features that In North America, the functional requirements equivalent to vary are the design of the control actuating devices (pushbut- type III described above are required when two-hand controls tons) as well as the requirements in relation to the control are intended to protect people from machine hazards. system. Sub-types with detailed control-related requirements are The following basic principles apply to all types: defined for type III two-hand controls. The most important sub- • It shall be ensured by location, orientation, and/or shrouding types are: 3 that both hands are used • Type III A: evaluation of one normally open contact per con- • Releasing one of the two control actuating devices (pushbut- trol actuating device (pushbutton) (2 inputs) c tons) shall stop the dangerous movement • Type III C: evaluation of one normally open contact and one • Inadvertent actuation shall be prevented normally closed contact per control actuating device (push- • It shall not be possible to easily defeat the device button) (4 inputs) • It shall not be possible to take the two-hand control closer to the hazard zone than the permitted safe mounting distance Spacer bar • When more than one operator is provided with a two-hand control, all actuating devices (pushbuttons) must be actu- ated concurrently to initiate hazardous machine functions The following provisions also apply in the case of type II and type III two-hand controls: • Hazardous machine functions may only resume after both control actuating devices (pushbuttons) have been released and then activated again ➜ Requirements to be met by two-hand controls: ISO 13851, OSHA 1910.217, ANSI B11.19, NFPA 79, RIA TR R15.406, CSA Z32, NR-12 g See 3-63 for information about calculating the minimum distance for two-hand controls. 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 3-39 Subject to change without notice Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Risk reduction Enabling devices During machine setup and maintenance, and if it is necessary § to observe production processes close up, functions of the pro- tective devices may need to be disabled in certain circumstanc- es. In addition to other measures that minimize risk (reduced force/speed, etc.), control devices are required that shall be actuated for the entire time the protective devices are disabled. Enabling devices are an option in such cases. 1 Enabling devices are physically actuated control switches which obtain the operator’s acknowledgement before allowing machine functions. Generally, pushbuttons or foot switches are used as enabling devices. Joysticks or inching buttons can be used as additional start controls for the enabling device. Having