designed so that Hazardous point protection without reset it withstands the foreseeable load and the intended effect can only be obtained by intentional actuation ( touch panels are unsuitable). According to ISO 13849-1 (Subclause 5.2.2), the reset shall only be generated by releasing the command device from its actuated (On) position. For this reason, signal process- ing is required to detect the falling edge of the signal from the 2 command device. Reset is only permitted if all safety functions and protective devices are functional. The command device for the reset shall be installed outside the hazard zone such that it is not accessible from within the safeguarded area. It shall be possible from this position to 3 completely oversee the hazard zone. By this means it can be checked that there is nobody in the hazard zone. c In this arrangement it is not possible to remain in the hazard zone without being detected. Therefore, a separate reset of the protective device is not necessary. The position of the reset pushbutton allows a full view of the hazard zone for the resetting of the protective device. 3-64 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Integration of protective devices into the control system Along with mechanical aspects, a protective device must also be integrated into the control system. "Control systems are functional assemblies that form part of the information system of a machine and implement logical func- tions. They coordinate the flows of material and energy to the area of action of the tool and workpiece system in the context of a task. […] control systems differ in terms of the technology used, i.e., the information carriers, fluid, electrical and electronic control systems." Translation of text from: Alfred Neudörfer: Konstruieren sicherheitsgerechter Produkte, Springer-Verlag, Berlin u. a., ISBN 978-3642191886 (4th Edition 2011) The general term “control system” describes the entire chain Safety-related parts of the control system (SRP/CS) are of a control system. The control system comprises an input ele- designed to perform safety functions. For this reason, special ment, logic unit, power control element as well as the actuator/ requirements are placed on their reliability and their resistance work element. to faults. They are based on the principles of preventing and controlling faults. 3 c 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 3-65 Subject to change without notice Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Risk reduction Control system Aspects relating to safety technology Principle of op- Typical components Interfering factors Explanations eration of the control § system 1 2 3 c 3-66 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice diulF Pneumatic • Multiway valves • Changes in energy levels Mostly designed as electropneumatic • Vent valves • Purity and water content of the control systems. • Manual shut-off valves compressed air Service unit necessary for conditioning • Filters with water trap compressed air. • Hoses Hydraulic • Accumulators • Purity Mostly designed as electrohydraulic • Pressure limiters • Viscosity control systems. • Multiway valves • Temperature of the pressurized fluid Measures necessary to limit the pres- • Filters sure and temperature in the system • Level gauges and to filter the medium. • Temperature gauges • Hoses • Threaded fittings lacirtcelE Electromechani- • Control switches: • Protection class of the devices Due to their design and unambiguous cal • Position switches • Selection, dimensioning, and switch positions, parts are insensitive • Selector switches placement of the components and to moisture, temperature fluctuations, • Pushbuttons devices and electromagnetic interference if • Switchgear: • Design and routing of the cables selected correctly • Contactors • Relays • Circuit breakers Electronic • Individual components, e.g.: As listed under "Electromechanical" Exclusion of faults not possible. • Transistors In addition: Reliable action can only be achieved • Resistors • Temperature fluctuations using control system concepts, not by • Capacitors • Electromagnetic interference component selection. • Coils coupled via cables or fields • Highly integrated components, e.g., integrated circuits (IC) Microprocessor- • Microprocessors • Installation fault in the hardware • Measures to prevent faults: controlled • Software • Systematic failures including • Structured design common mode failures • Program analysis • Programming errors • Simulation • Handling errors • Measures to control faults: • Operating errors • Redundant hardware and • Manipulation/tampering software • Viruses • RAM/ROM test • CPU test Translation of text from: Alfred Neudörfer, Konstruieren sicherheitsgerechter Produkte, Springer Verlag, Berlin u. a., ISBN 978-3642191886 (4th Edition 2011) (English version “The Design of Safe Machines” planned for 2015: ISBN 978-3-540-35791-9) The safety-related input elements have been described above Fluid control systems are often implemented as electropneu- as the safety sensors (protective devices). For this reason, only matic or electrohydraulic control systems. In other words, the the logic unit and the actuators are described below. electrical signals are converted to fluid energy by valves to To assess the safety aspects of the actuators, reference is move cylinders and other actuators. made to the power control elements. Faults and failures in ac- tuator/work elements are normally excluded. (A motor without any power typically goes to the safe state.) - Connection diagrams for the integration of protective devices can be found at http://www.sickusa.com/ Risk reduction Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Logic units In a logic unit different input signals from safety functions are Warning: Depending on the required reliability, the signals from linked together to form output signals. Electromechanical, elec- the protective devices shall not be processed only by standard tronic, or programmable electronic components can be used for control systems (e.g., PLC). There must also be redundant this purpose. circuits for removing power. Logic unit made up of separate contactors +24V Reset Main circuit S1 Control +24V +24V system OSSD1 OSSD2 0V 0V K1 Q0 FE FE K1 K2 K3 K2 Q1M Control circuit K3 K3 Q2M Q1M 3 K1 K3 K2 K3 Q2M M K1 K2 K3 3~ c Using individual auxiliary contactors with positively guided OSSD1 and OSSD2 are conducting voltage.