op s d ×h ×3600 op op h i n = op t cycle O On-delay time Time by which the response of the contacts is delayed. Variable on-delay times can be set on switching amplifiers with response delay. OSSD Output signal switching device The part of the electro-sensitive protective equipment (g ESPE) that is connected - 3-28 to the machine control and that changes to the OFF state when the sensor sec- tion is triggered during intended operation. 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK i-15 SSuubbjjeecctt ttoo cchhaannggee wwiitthhoouutt nnoottiiccee Overview of relevant standards Annex Abbreviation/Term Definition Index P PFHd Probability of dangerous failure Mean probability of a dangerous failure per hour (1/h). - 3-81 per hour PL Performance level Discrete level used to specify the ability of the safety-related parts of a control - 3-81 system to perform a safety function under foreseeable conditions (ISO 13849-1/ EN ISO 13849-1). Placing on the market Making available for the first time in the European Community machinery or partly - 6-3 completed machinery with a view to distribution or use, whether for reward or free of charge (Machinery Directive 2006-42-EC) Positive opening Positive opening on switches signifies that there must be positive transmission of - 3-23 force between actuator and switching element. The actuating mechanism must be designed so that even in the event of mechanical failure (a spring fracturing or contact welding, for example) the contacts open reliably and remain open in the actuated state (IEC 60947-5-1/EN 60947-5-1). Presence detection Secondary protective device for machines and/or systems that can be accessed - 3-48 from the floor and on which the system must be prevented from starting while the operator is inside (safety function: preventing start). Protective field The area in which the test object specified by the manufacturer is detected by the - 3-30 electro-sensitive protective equipment (g ESPE). • Safety light curtain: The protective field lies between the sender unit and the receiver unit. It is defined by the protective field height and the protective field width. • Safety laser scanner: The protective field secures the hazard zone on a ma- chine or vehicle. The field is defined by the scanning range, scanning angle, response time, and resolution of the device used (see technical specifications). PSDI Presence–Sensing Device Operating mode of indirect manual initiation of a single cycle by a presence–sens- - 3-38 Initiation ing device when it senses that work motions of the operator related to feeding or removing parts are completed and all parts of the operator’s body are withdrawn from the sensing field of the device (ANSI B11.19). R Reset Resetting the protective device to the monitored status. - 3-43 • Manual reset is provided by a separate device to be operated manually, e.g., - 3-64 using a reset button. • Automatic reset by the protective device is only permitted in exceptional cases: It must not be possible for persons to be in the hazard zone without the protec- tive device triggering or it must be ensured there are no people in the hazard zone during and after reset. Resolution/Sensor detection capability The limit for the sensor parameter that causes the electro-sensitive protective - 3-30 equipment (g ESPE) to respond. It is defined by the manufacturer. Response time The maximum time between the occurrence of an event which activates the sen- - 3-44 sor unit and the switching outputs (g OSSDs) being switched to the OFF state. Restart Putting the machine back into operation. After the triggering of the protective - 3-64 function or after a fault, the protective device can be reset to make it possible to subsequently restart the machine. Restart interlock Means of preventing automatic restarting of a machine following triggering of the - 3-55 safety function during a dangerous part of the machine operating cycle, after a change in the operating mode of the machine, and after a change to the device used to control starting of the machine (IEC 61496-1/EN 61496-1). • Operating modes include: inching, single stroke, automatic • Startup control devices include: foot switch, two-hand control device, single- break PSDI triggering or double-break PSDI triggering by the ESPE’s sensor i function • Restart interlock (RES): The machine stops and the restart interlock (RES) is engaged on interruption of at least one light beam. This interlock ensures that the machine can only be restarted if the light path is clear and the reset button has been pressed and released again. S Safety function Function of a machine whose failure can result in an immediate increase of the - 3-2 risk(s) (ISO 12100). A safety function is provided by safety-related parts of control systems (g SRP/CS). Sensor detection capability/Resolution The limit for the sensor parameter that causes the electro-sensitive protective - 3-30 equipment (g ESPE) to respond. It is defined by the manufacturer. i-16 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 SSuubbjjeecctt ttoo cchhaannggee wwiitthhoouutt nnoottiiccee Annex Overview of relevant standards Abbreviation/Term Definition Index SFF Safe failure fraction Safe failures as a fraction of the overall failure rate of a subsystem that does not - 3-90 result in a dangerous failure (IEC 62061/EN 62061). SIL Safety integrity level Discrete level (one out of a possible three) for specifying the safety integrity of - 3-89 the safety functions assigned to the safety-related system, where safety integrity level 3 has the highest level of safety integrity and safety integrity level 1 has the lowest (IEC 62061/EN 62061). SILCL SIL claim limit Safety integrity level claim limit (for a subsystem): Maximum SIL that can be - 3-89 claimed for an g SRECS subsystem in relation to architectural constraints and systematic safety integrity (IEC 62061/EN 62061). Single-break/double-break PSDI mode: This operating mode is advantageous if parts must be inserted or removed by - 3-38 hand periodically. In this mode, the machine cycle is automatically re-initiated after the protective field becomes clear again following single or double break. The reset device must be activated under the following conditions: • When the machine starts • On