of enabling switch and safely reduced speed 48 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3A – DEFINING THE SAFETY FUNCTIONS Combining or switching safety functions A machine can adopt various states or work in various operating modes. Within this context, different safety measures may be effective or different safety functions may be coupled together. The process of switching between operating modes, or the selection and adjust‐ ment of different safety measures, is not allowed to lead to a dangerous state. When combining or changing safety functions, an appropriate safety level must also be determined and implemented. Examples: • After a change of operating mode between setup and normal operation, the machine is stopped. A new manual start command is necessary. • Adapting the monitored area of a safety laser scanner according to the vehicle speed Figure 30: Adapting the monitored area of a safety laser scanner according to the vehicle speed Emergency stop Emergency stop is a complementary protective meas‐ ure and not a protective device. The safety level of this function shall be defined based on the risk assessment of the machine. In particu‐ lar, influencing environmental factors (e.g., vibration, method of actuation, etc.) shall be considered (see also section "Emergency operation", page 89). Figure 31: Emergency stop by means of an emergency stop pushbutton NOTE - See IEC 60204-1 and ISO 13850 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 49 Subject to change without notice 3A – DEFINING THE SAFETY FUNCTIONS Safety-related indications and alarms Safety-related indications are means of providing the user with information about impending hazards (e.g., overspeed) or possible residual risks. These kind of signals can also be used to warn the operator before automatic protective measures are initiated. The following should be noted: • Warning devices must be designed and arranged so that they can easily be checked and inspected. • The information for use shall include the prescrip‐ tion of the regular inspection of warning equip‐ ment. • Sensorial saturation should be avoided, in particu‐ lar where audible alarms are concerned. Examples: • Interlocking indications • Startup warning devices • Muting lamps Figure 32: Safety-related indications on an autonomous fork‐ lift truck Other functions Safety devices can also perform other functions. The actual safety functions must not be impaired as a result of this. Examples: • Tool and machine protection • PSDI mode (cycle initiation - see "Additional functions of ESPE", page 81 ff) • Using the measurement data of a safety laser scanner to navigate an autonomous vehicle Summary: Defining the safety functions Define which safety functions are required for risk reduction: • Permanently preventing entry/access • Temporarily preventing access • Retaining parts/substances/radiation • Initiating a stop • Avoiding an unexpected start-up • Preventing start • Combination of initiating a stop/preventing start • Allowing material passage • Monitoring machine parameters • Safeguarding work areas shared by humans and machines • Disabling safety functions manually and for a limited time • Combining or switching safety functions • Emergency stop • Safety-related indications and alarms 50 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3B – DETERMINING THE REQUIRED SAFETY LEVEL 3b – Determining the required safety level As a rule, type-C standards (machine-specific standards) shall specify the required safety level. The required safety level must be defined separately for each safety function, and applies for all devices involved, for example … • the sensor/the protective device • the evaluating logic unit a safe machine into 6 main Laws, directives, standards, liability steps. Two additional chapters describe the regulatory requirements for the machine manufacturer and the requirements for the machine user. 1 Risk assessment This guide describes the legal requirements on the safety of machinery in the European Union and their Safe design implementation. The legal requirements relating to machinery in other regions (e.g., North America, Asia) are described in separate versions of this guide. 3 Technical protective measure It is not possible to derive any claims whatsoever from the following information, irrespective of the legal basis, 4 Information for use as every machine requires a specific solution against the background of national and international regula‐ tions and standards. 5 Overall validation We refer to the latest published standards and direc‐ tives at the time of publishing. If, in the event of new 6 Placing on the market standards, the use of the predecessor standard is per‐ mitted for a transition period, we have noted this situa‐ tion in the relevant chapters of this guide. Responsibility of the user – noitcuder ksiR dohtem pets-3 eht FOREWORD 2 Figure 2: Structure: “Six steps to a safe machine” Who is this guide for? This guide is aimed at manufacturers, users, designers, system engineers, and all individuals who are responsible for machine safety. Use of the terms “safety” and “safe” in this document According to ISO Guide 51, "The term “safe” is often understood by the general public as the state of being protected from all hazards. However, this is a misunderstanding: “safe” is rather the state of being protected from recognized hazards that are likely to cause harm”. Some level of risk is inherent in all products or systems (so-called residual risk). Absolute certainty is therefore not possible. In this guide, the terms “safety” • the power control element(s) If no type-C standard exists for the particular machine or the type-C standard does not contain any requirements relating to this, the required safety level can be determined on the basis of one of the following standards: NOTE - ISO 13849-1 - IEC 62061 By applying these standards it can be ensured that the effort required to reduce the risk is reasonable for the risk that has been determined. The protection of an operator who manually inserts and removes parts at a metal press requires a different risk reduction compared to the protection of an operator who works on a machine on which the maximum risk is the