often used for this purpose. NOTICE Depending on the required reliability, the signals from the protective devices shall not be processed only by standard control systems. There must, if necessary, also be parallel cut-off paths. Logic unit: basic construction with auxiliary contactors +24 V Main circuit +24 V +24 V Res. OSSD1 S1 Controller OSSD2 0 V 0 V Q0 K1 FE FE K1 K2 K3 K2 Q1M Control circuit Q2M K3 K3 Q1M K1 K3 K2 K3 Q2M M K1 K2 K3 3~ 0 V Figure 94: Circuit design for a safety-related logic unit with contactors Using individual auxiliary contactors with positively guided contacts, it is possible to design control functions with any level of complexity. Redundancy and monitoring by positively guided contacts are features of this safety principle. Wiring provides the logical operators. Function: If the contactors K1 and K2 are de-energized, on pressing S1 the K3 contactor is energized and remains energized. If no object is detected in the active protective field, the outputs OSSD1 and OSSD2 are conducting voltage. The contactors K1 and K2 are energized by the normally open contacts on K3 and latch. K3 is de-energized by releasing S1. Only then are the output circuits closed. On detection of an object in the active protective field, the K1 and K2 contactors are de-energized by the OSSD1 and OSSD2 outputs. Logic unit as safety relay (safety/relay combination) +24 V +24 V +24 V OSSD1 Main circuit OSSD2 Controller 0 V 0 V FE FE Q0 Control circuit Res.In1 In2+24 V Res. UE XX S1 Res.EDM0 V Q1M Q1M Q2M M Q2M 3~ 0 V Figure 95: Circuit design for a safety-related logic unit with safety relay 114 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Safety relays combine one or more safety functions in one housing. They generally also have automatic monitoring functions. The cut-off paths can be set up based on contact or using semiconductors. They can also have signaling contacts. Building more complex safety applications is simplified by integrating multiple functions into one device. The certified safety relay also reduces the time and effort involved in validating the safety functions. In safety relays, semiconductor elements can perform the task of the electromechanical switching elements instead of relays. Using measures to detect faults such as the sampling of dynamic signals or measures to control faults such as multiple channel signal processing, purely electronic control systems can achieve the necessary degree of reliability. Logic unit with software-based components Similar to automation technology, safety technology has developed from hard-wired auxiliary contactors through safety relays (some with configurable safety logic for which parameters can be set) to complex fail-safe PLCs. The concept of “proven components” and “proven safety principles” must be transferred to electrical and programma‐ ble electronic systems. The logical operators for the safety function are implemented in the software. Software is to be differentiated from firmware — developed and certified by the manufacturer of the control device — and the actual safety application, which is developed by the machine manufacturer using the functionality supported by the firmware. The choice and adjustment of the functions of logic units is offered in different levels of flexibility: • Parameterization • Configuration • Programming Parameterization Is the selection of properties from a defined pool of functionality by selector switch/software parameters at the time of commissioning. Features: low logic depth, AND/OR logic Configuration Flexible operators for defined function blocks in certified logic with a software-supported configuration interface, parameterization of times and configuration of the inputs/outputs of the control system, for example. Features: any logic depth, binary logic Figure 96: Example of linking the function blocks of a software-supported logic unit 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 115 Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Programming Defines the logic as required using the functional‐ ity defined by the predefined programming language, mostly using certified function blocks. Features: any logic depth, word level Figure 97: Example of linking logic blocks and function blocks when programming a function Reliable data transmission Bus systems are used to transmit signals between Repetition the control system and sensors or power-controlling ele‐ Sender Receiver ments on the machine. Bus systems are also respon‐ sible for the transmission of states between different parts of control systems. A bus system makes wiring Loss easier and as a result reduces the possible errors. It Sender Receiver is reasonable to use bus systems already used in the market for safety-related applications. Insertion An examination of the hardware and software errors Sender Receiver that arise in transmission systems shows that these errors lead to the following transmission errors in bus systems: Wrong order • Repetition Sender Receiver • Loss • Insertion Corruption • Wrong sequence • Corruption Sender Receiver • Data delay Transmission errors can be avoided using various Delay measures in the higher-level control system, e.g., by Sender Receiver sequential numbering of the safety-related telegrams Source: Safety in Construction and Design of Printing and Paper Converting Machines – or a time expectation for incoming telegrams with Electrical Equipment and Control Systems, BG Druck- und Papierverarbeitung (today BG ETEM); Edition 06/2004; page 79 acknowledgment. Protocol extensions based on the Figure 98: Transmission errors of bus systems. field-bus used include such measures. In the ISO/OSI layer model, they act over the transport layer and, therefore, use the field-bus with all its com‐ ponents as a “black channel”, without modification. Examples of established safe bus systems are: • Actuator Sensor Interface Safety at Work • DeviceNet CIP Safety™ • PROFIsafe 116 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice Selection criteria The criteria for the selection of a control system model are initially the number of safety functions to be imple‐ mented as well as the scope of the logical operators on the input signals. Number of safety functions srosnes fo rebmuN 3C – DESIGNING THE