This information may be obtained at OSHA’s Nationally recognized testing labs §­14 •Michigan •Virginia internet web site at: •Minnesota •Washington Test bodies, insurance providers, - http://osha.gov/dcsp/osp/index.html •Nevada •Wyoming and authorities ................§­15 •New Jersey 1) Summary.....................§­16 1) Connecticut, Illinois, New Jersey, New York and Virgin Islands plans cover public sector (State and Local Government) employment only. 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK §§--11 Subject to change without notice Regulations Laws, regulations, directives, standards Canada regulatory requirements § In March of 2004, Federal amendment Bill C-45 Purpose of Part II of the Canada Labour Code: was passed into law and became a new section Under subsection 122.1, the purpose of the Canada Labour called 217.1 in the criminal code. This law was a Code, Part II is to pre vent accidents and injury to health aris­ recommendation as a result of a Royal commission ing out of, linked with or occurring in the course of employment of Inquiry into a methane gas explosion in a coal mine in Nova to which this Part applies. Under subsection 122.2, prevent ive Scotia that killed 26 workers. measures should consist first of the elimination of hazards, then 217.1 states: Every one who undertakes, or has the authority, to the reduction of hazards and finally, the provision of per sonal direct how another person or Type 4 inter- mechanical position switches are concerned: locking device is the only interlocking device on a guard, it • The actuating travel shall be set to suit the positive-opening must meet the requirements of IEC 60947-5-3. travel • The minimum plunger travel specified by the manufacturer shall be observed in order to provide the switching distance required for positive opening Prevention of manipulation Redundant design When designing interlocking devices, designers shall consider The critical failure of an individual safety switch can be caused the possible motivation for manipulation of the protective de- by manipulation, a mechanical fault on the actuator or position vice and take foreseeable manipulation into account. switch (e.g., aging), or the effects of extreme ambient condi- 3 Measures to counter manipulation with simple means shall be tions (e.g., roller plunger jammed by dust deposits). In particu- applied. lar at higher safety levels it is necessary to use an additional c Simple means include screws, needles, sections of sheet steel, position switch, e.g., with the opposite function to that of the coins, bent wire, and similar. first position switch, and to have both switches monitored by Possible means of avoiding simple attempts to manipulate the control system. interlocking devices include: Example: an injection molding machine with cyclically operated • Making interlocking devices difficult to access by using con- movable guard, which requires two mechanical switches. cealed assembly or installation out of reach • Using position switches with coded actuators • Mounting the elements of the interlocking switches with "one-way" fasteners (e.g., safety screws, rivets) • Manipulation monitoring in the control system (plausibility checks, testing) Example: Detection of mechanical faults by means of a diverse redundant arrangement Mechanical failure of actuator is detected by redundant diverse arrangement 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 3-23 Subject to change without notice Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Risk reduction § - Requirements for safety switches/interlocking devices: ISO 14119, ANSI B11.19, RIA TR R15.406, CSA Z432, NR-12 - Principle of positive opening: IEC 60 947-5-1 - Additional requirements for horizontal injection molding machines for the plastics industry: ANSI/SPI B151.1 1 2 Locking devices Locking devices are devices that prevent guards from opening. Locking devices are also required if a process shall not be inter- They shall be applied if the stopping time of the dangerous rupted (process protection only, not a safety function). machine state is longer than the time a person needs to reach The figure below shows the possible designs of locking devices. the hazard zone (safety function "prevent access by time"). 3 c 3-24 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice elpicnirP By shape By force fo elpicnirP noitarepo noitautcA )gnikcol( Spring Power ON Power ON Power ON gnikcoL Power ON Spring Power ON Power OFF mreT Non-contact version Non-contact interlocking devices are of redundant inter- nal design or use special principles such as magnetic coding, inductive coup ling, or transponders with codes. Safety locking devices The safety function “temporarily prevent access” is normally Safety locking devices are devices that prevent the opening of accomplished using locking devices. Locking devices are nec- physical guards until there is no longer a risk of injury. Typically essary if the dangerous movement takes a long time to stop a differentiation is made between the following vari ants: (protection of personnel) or if a process is not allowed to be interrupted (process protection). Mechanical locking device (pre- Electrical locking device (pre- Pneumatic/hydraulic locking Magnetic locking device ferred for safeguarding) ferred for process protection) device Releasing the locking device using power can be performed as Escape release and emergency release follows: The risk assessment may show that in the case of a fault or • Time-control: In the case that a timer is used, the failure of in an emergency situation, measures are required for freeing this device shall not reduce the delay personnel trapped in the hazard zone. A differentiation is to • Automatic: Only if there is no dangerous machine state pre- be made between the concepts of mechanical release (using vailing (e.g., due to standstill monitoring devices) tools) and emergency or escape release (without tools). • Manual: The time between unlocking and the release of the Locking force required protective device shall be greater than the time it takes for An essential criterion when selecting a locking device is the the dangerous machine function to stop force required to hold the guard. Annex I of ISO 14119:2013 • When used for safeguarding purposes, the time-control or specifies maximum static forces that can be applied to the automatic signal to release the locking device must come most commonly used movable guards. from a certified safety component Mechanical