• Make sure that the protective measures are implemented effectively and that the required safety level is reached. 3 c 4 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 4-3 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Notes Notes Risk reduction § 1 2 4 4-4 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Overall validation Overall validation of the machine Overall validation Overall validation of the machine Step 5: Overall validation As functional safety is only one com- • Have all operating conditions in all ponent of risk reduction, all measures phases of the machine life cycle been (design and build, technological, and taken into account? organizational) shall be assessed for • Has the 3-step method been applied? their overall effect as part of an overall • Have the hazards been dealt with or validation process. the risks posed by the hazards mini- mized to the fullest possible practical extent? • Is there an assurance that the measures taken will not result in new hazards? • Have users been given sufficient information about and warning of the residual risks? • Is there an assurance that the protec- tive measures that have been taken In practice, therefore, it may be the case will not impair the working conditions that an individual technical measure of operating personnel? does not reduce risk but in the overall • Are the protective measures that context a satisfactory result is achieved. have been taken compatible with one 3 Adequate risk reduction can be consid- another? ered to have been achieved if all of the • Has sufficient consideration been c following questions can be answered given to the possible consequences of with "yes": using the machine in a non-commer- cial or non-industrial environment? • Is there an assurance that the mea- sures taken will not unduly impair the function of the machine as intended? • Has the risk been reasonably reduced? 5 During a safety inspection, SICK safety specialists check the entire machine for relevant hazards. Special requirements It is the law in some regions that before workers operate any machinery, an em- ployer must first have a report prepared by a professional engineer stating which measures need to be taken in order to ensure the safeguarding is adequate and properly applied. Canada: In some provinces of Canada, including Ontario, the law requires that this report be completed. The report is called a Pre-Start Health and Safety Review (PSR) and is required by PSR Legislation, Section 7 of the Occupational Health and Safety Act. (http://www.e-laws.gov.on.ca/html/regs/english/elaws_ regs_900851_e.htm) Brazil: In Brazil, the standard NR-12 requires that any substantial transformation of the operating system, including retrofitting, shall only be performed by designs prepared by a legally qualified professional, accompanied by a Technical Responsi- bility Annotation (ART). The ART is a function of the Regional Council of Engineering and Architecture (CREA). 7028282/ 2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 5-1 Subject to change without notice Notes Notes Overall validation § 1 2 5 5-2 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Responsibility of the user (operating organization) Deployment of machinery Responsibility of the user (operating organization) Deployment of machinery Step 6: Deployment of machinery The employer is responsible for the safety and inspections on delivery, the safety of the employees. Machines shall correct and proper specification of safety be ergonomic and be capable of being requirements is something that ought to operated safely according to the qualifi- be taken into account as early as when cations of the machine operators. purchasing a machine. As well as acceptance testing to verify How should machinery be procured? The acquisition process is a key stage in • Draw up a contract specifying how a project to build or modernize produc- additional documentation is to be tion facilities. The decisions that are provided (e.g., risk assessment, PSR/ made at this stage can determine suc- ART, etc.) so that it will be easier to cess of failure. make changes downstream. • For complex assemblies of machines, • Define, as far as possible, which designate a "site manager" when fol- standards will be applied (e.g., ANSI lowing the Machinery Directive. consensus standards, harmonized • Clarify in advance in Annex I of the Machinery Directive shall be met first. Attention! The CE marking can only be applied if the If harmonized standards exist for the machine or safety machine meets all applicable European directives. (Only components and these standards cover the entire range of then is a product allowed to be placed on the market in the essential health and safety requirements, the declaration of European Union.) conformity can be reached in one of three ways: • Self-certification • EC type examination by a notified body • Use of a full quality management system that has been assessed §§--66 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Laws, regulations, directives, standards European directives Special case: Partly completed machinery In many cases, parts of machines, machine assemblies, or Partly completed machinery cannot meet all requirements of machine components are manufactured and delivered that the Machinery Directive. Therefore, the Machinery Directive § are very close to the definition of a machine but cannot be regulates their free trade using a special procedure: considered complete machines in the context of the Machinery • The manufacturer shall meet all reasonably achievable Directive. The Machinery Directive defines as “partly completed essential health and safety requirements of the Machinery machinery” a collection of components that almost form a Directive. machine, but that on their own cannot perform any specific • The manufacturer shall issue a declaration of incorporation. function. An individual industrial robot without an end­effector, It describes which essential requirements of the Machinery for example, is a partly completed machine. A partly completed Directive are applied and met. Technical documentation, machine is only intended to be installed in other machinery similar to that for a machine, is to be prepared as appropri­ or in other partly completed machinery or