start The aperture angle is decisive in determining the minimum (g 3-4) distance in relation to reflective surfaces (table, g 3-30). 2 • Allowing material passage (g 3-5) • Monitoring machine parameters (g 3-5) • Indications and alarms that are relevant to safety (g 3-7) • Other functions, e.g., PSDI mode, blanking, protective field switching, etc. (g 3-37) 3 - Requirements to be met by ESPE: IEC 61496-1, UL 61496-1, IEC 61496-2, UL 61496-2, IEC 61496-3, IEC TR 61496-4, ANSI B11.19, RIA TR R15.406, and CSA Z432 c Achievable reliability of safety functions with optoelectronic protective devices ISO 13849-1 (PL) Example devices a b c d e Safety light curtains, single-beam photoelectric 2 safety switches, multiple light beam safety devices ESPE type according to IEC 61496-1 3 Safety laser scanners, safety camera systems and UL 61496-1 Safety light curtains, single-beam photoelectric 4 safety switches, multiple light beam safety devices 1 2 3 IEC 62061 (SIL) Always follow the additional application notes, information, and instructions in the instruction handbook for the optoelectronic protective devices. 3-32 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Safeguarding (technical protective measures) What should ESPE detect? Hazardous point protection with finger or hand detection In the case of hazardous point protection, approach is detected very close to the hazardous point. The advantage of this type of protective device is that it allows short minimum distance and the operator can work more ergo- nomically (e.g., during loading work on a press). Access protection: Detection of a person on access to the hazard zone 3 In the case of access protection, the approach of a person is detected by detecting the body. c This type of protective device is used for protection of access to hazard zones. A stop signal is initiated if the hazard zone is entered. A person who is standing behind the protective device will not be detected by the ESPE! 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 3-33 Subject to change without notice Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Risk reduction Hazard area protection: Detection of the presence of a person in the hazard area In the case of hazard area protection, the approach of the per- son is detected by detecting the person’s presence in an area. § This type of protective device is suitable for machines on which, for example, a hazard area cannot be viewed completely from the position of the reset device. If the hazard area is entered, a stop signal is initiated and starting prevented. 1 2 Mobile hazard area protection: Detection of a person approaching the hazard area Hazard area protection is suitable for AGV (automated guided 3 vehicle), cranes and stackers, to protect people during move- ment of the vehicles or while these vehicles dock to a fixed c station. 3-34 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Safety functions that can be integrated in ESPE The following safety functions can be integrated either in the The following conditions shall be met to implement a safe, logic unit or directly in suitable ESPE. standardized muting function: • During muting, a safe state must be ensured by other Muting means, such that it shall not be possible to access the The muting function is used to deactivate the protective func- hazard zone tion of a protective device temporarily. This is necessary when • Muting shall be automatic, i.e., not manual material must be moved through the protective field of the • Muting shall not be dependent on a single electrical signal protective device without stopping the work routine (hazardous • Muting shall not be entirely dependent on software signals state of the machine). • An invalid combination or sequence of muting signals shall It can also be used effectively to optimize the work routine if not allow any muting state, and it shall be ensured that the allowed by certain machine states (e.g., muting the function of protective function is retained a safety light curtain during the non-hazardous upwards move- • The muting status shall end immediately after the material ment of a press die, making it easier for the operator to remove has passed through workpieces). To improve the quality of differentiation, additional limits, inter- Muting shall only be possible if the access to the hazardous lock, or signals can be used including: point is blocked by the passing material. On the other hand, • Direction of movement of the material (sequence of the mut- where protective devices preventing access (protective devices ing signals) that cannot be trespassed) are concerned, muting shall only be • Limiting of the muting duration possible if no dangerous machine functions are present (see • Material request by the machine control 3 figure). This status is determined by muting sensors or signals. • Operational status of the material handling elements (e.g., For the muting function, great care is necessary when selecting conveyor belt, roller conveyor) c and positioning the muting sensors and controller signals used. • Material identification by additional properties (e.g., bar code) - Practical application of ESPE: IEC TS 62046, ANSI B11.19, RIA TR R15.406, CSA Z432, NR-12 Muting function with safety light curtain and muting sensors on a wrapping machine. 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 3-35 Subject to change without notice Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Risk reduction Safety light curtains with entry/exit function Safety laser scanners with protective field switching Active differentiation between person and machine (entry/exit Active switching of protective fields provides other way of mov- function) provides other way of moving material into a safe- ing material into a safeguarded area. For this application, safety § guarded area. laser scanners are normally used with vertical (or slightly tilted) For this application, horizontally arranged safety light curtains protective fields. (AOPDs) are applied. The possibility of evaluating each light The appropriate protective field, from a series of prepro- beam individually is used to differentiate the interruption grammed protective fields, is activated by