1998, various amendments were summarized and consolidated in the Machinery Directive 98/37/EC. • in 2006, the Machinery Directive 2006/42/EC, which replaced the previous version, was passed. All EC member states were obliged to adopt the new directive by December 29, 2009. NOTE As of December 29, 2009 only Machinery Directive 2006/42/EC is to be implemented! NOTE The Machinery Directive was implemented in the German-speaking countries as follows: • Germany: Ninth Ordinance (Machinery Ordinance / 9. ProdSV) to the Product Safety Act (ProdSG) dated November 8, 2011 • the speed at which the vehi‐ cles are moving. Safe standstill or rotation evaluation modules monitor the movement of drives using sensors or rotary encod‐ ers to generate a safe control signal at standstill or on deviation from preset parameters. If safety-related requirements are more stringent, either safety encod‐ ers or redundant encoders shall be used. Another possibility is to monitor the voltage induced by residual magnetism on a motor that is spinning down. Figure 71: Speed monitoring for protective field switching on an automated guided vehicle 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 87 Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Pressure-sensitive protective devices In some applications, pressure sensitive protective devices such as pressure sensitive mats, pressure sensitive rails or bumpers may be useful. The principle of operation is based in the majority of cases on the elastic deformation of a hollow body that ensures an internal signal generation (electromechanical or optical) which triggers the safety function. The standard electromechanical systems are available in various designs. Correct mechanical layout and integration is imperative in all cases for an effective protective function. The detec‐ tion of children with body weights less than 20 kg is not considered in the product standards for pressure-sensitive mats and floors. Table 31: Principles of operation of pressure sensitive mats, pressure sensitive rails, bumpers Short circuiting designs (power to lock) Positive opening contact design 4-wire version Resistance version (power to release) Controller Controller Controller ln ln ln In both variants, a short-circuit is produced when the protective device is activated. This design is more universal and offers In the case of the 4-wire version, a circuit is short-circuited (a few ohms). In the more advantages. As on a safety switch, case of the resistance version, a change from a set resistance (a few kOhms) is a switch contact is opened on activation detected. These designs require more complex evaluation. of the protective device. A short-circuit between the cables can be prevented by using a special cable layout. NOTE Design of pressure sensitive protective devices: Type-B standard ISO 13856 (series of standards) Complementary protective measures If necessary, provision must be made for further protective measures which are neither inherently safe designs or technical precautionary measures. These might include: • Emergency stop devices • Measures to free and rescue persons who have become trapped • Measures for isolating and dissipating energy (see "Power supply connection", page 31 and see "Mains disconnection device", page 33) • Preventive measures for easy and safe handling of machines and heavy parts • Measures for safe access to machinery 88 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION If these complementary measures are dependent upon the correct function of the corresponding control compo‐ nents, then they are safety functions. The requirements on functional safety must be met for these measures. (see "Application of reset and restart", page 110). Emergency operation To prevent impending hazards to persons, damage to machines or production processes, or to minimize exist‐ ing ones, functions must be provided for such emergen‐ cies. These functions, which cause machine functions to stop (emergency stop) or electrical power to be dis‐ connected (emergency switching off) in an emergency, are complementary protective measures for hazards on machines. They do not replace the use of inherently safer design or protective devices. Figure 72: Emergency stop and reset control switches at a robot station Emergency stop (ISO 13850) In the event of an emergency, not only shall all hazardous machine functions be ceased, but the energy from all energy sources which pose a hazard shall be dissipated. This procedure is known as emergency stopping. Every machine must be equipped with at least one emergency stop function, except: • Machines for which an emergency stop would not reduce the risk • Hand-held and hand-guided machines The emergency stop function must be triggered by a single action of a person. The following fundamental requirements apply to the emergency stop function and its devices in accordance with ISO 13850: • The actuators of emergency stop control switches must be easily accessible. • The emergency stop function must end the dangerous state in a suitable manner as quickly as possible without creating additional risks. • The emergency stop function must take priority over all other functions and commands in all operating modes. • The emergency stop function must not impair the effectiveness of other safety functions. • Resetting the emergency stop control switches must not initiate a restart. • The principle of direct mechanical positive actuation with mechanical interlocking function must be applied (referred to as a latching function in IEC 60947-5-1). • When an emergency stop control switch is actuated, a stop command must be triggered, regardless of the effectiveness of the mechanical interlock function or latching function. • The emergency stop function must conform to stop category 0 or 1 (see "Stopping", page 35). • The emergency stop function must be designed in such a way that decisions to trigger it do not require the relevant person to think about the consequences (e.g., economic losses). 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 89 Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Reset If an emergency stop device is actuated, devices triggered by this action must remain in the off state until the device has been reset. Actuated emergency stop devices must be reset