by carrying out a test. A risk prevails during the time Clear between the occurrence of the fault Protective field Occupied and the next test. The test rate must Test cycle be observed. Risk On Signal output Off Category 3 Category 3 Normal operation Operation with fault In the event of a fault, the safety function is retained. Clear The fault is detected either when the Protective field Occupied safety function is executed or when the next test is carried out. An accu‐ mulation of faults may lead to the On loss of the safety function. 1 Off Signal outputs On 2 Off 1) Note: A safety function is defined as a function whose failure can result in an immediate increase in risk. 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 57 Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Category 4 Category 4 Normal operation Operation with fault Despite a fault, the safety function is retained. Clear Contrary to Category 3, consequen‐ Protective field Occupied tial faults following failure to detect the initial fault shall not result in a risk (loss of the safety function). On 1 Off Signal outputs On 2 Off Reliability of the safety components/devices The failure of safety-related components or devices may lead to disturbances in the machine process and to hazards. These components should therefore offer a high level of reliability. The higher the reliability, the lower the probability of a dangerous failure. The data for reliability describe the number of random failures during the service life of the components. These values are usually specified as: • B value for electromechanical or pneumatic components. Here, service life is determined by switching 10 frequency. The B value indicates the number of switching cycles until 10% of components fail. 10 • Failure rate λ (lambda value) for electronic components. The failure rate is often expressed in FITs (Failures In Time). One FIT is one failure per 109 hours. Early failures Random failures, Wear zone constant low failure rate 0 Time Figure 37: Failure rate λ (bathtub curve) Diagnostics for detecting faults Some faults can be detected by diagnostic measures. Diagnostic measures include plausibility monitoring, current and voltage monitoring, watchdog functionality, brief function test. Since all faults cannot always be detected, the degree of fault detection must be defined. A Failure Mode and Effects Analysis (FMEA) should be performed for this purpose. For complex designs, measures and empirical values from standards provide assistance. Resistance to common cause faults The term common cause fault is used, for example, to refer to both channels failing simultaneously due to interference. Appropriate measures must be taken to prevent this, e.g., isolated cable routing, suppressors, diversity of compo‐ nents. 58 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice I1 Input L1 Monitoring O1 signal Output signal Fault I2 Input L2 Monitoring O2 signal Output signal ssorC nosirapmoc 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Figure 38: Structure of a dual-channel safety component with a fault Process The process brings the following influencing elements together: • Organization and competence • Design rules (e.g. specification templates, coding guidelines) • Test concept and test criteria • Documentation and configuration management In the safety technology area, a process based on the V-model has proven particularly effective in practice for software (see figure). Specification of the Validated safety functions Safety-related software Validation software specification Draft system Integration tests Module design Module tests Result Implementation Verification Figure 39: V-model with the development and testing concept for safety-relevant software 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 59 Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Technology, selection and use of protective devices Technical protective measure Physical guards Protective devices Fixed Movable With tripping function Position fixing Not fixed position Interlocked physical Pressure Electro-sensitive Two-hand EEnnaabblliinngg guards sensitive control devices edevdiecveicses Pressure Edges and bars Bumpers and AOPD AOPDDR VBPD RBPD sensitive mats plates AOPD Active opto-electronic protective device, safety light curtains and safety light-beam sensors AOPDDR Active opto-electronic protective device responsive to diffuse reflection, safety laser scanner VBPD Vision based protective device, image-based protective devices RBPD radar based protective devices, Radarbasierte Schutzeinrichtungen Figure 40: Technology, selection and use of protective measures Physical guards Physical guards are mechanical protective devices that prevent hazardous points from being reached directly using parts of the body. They can be fixed or movable. Physical guards include, for example, covers, fences, barriers, flaps and protective doors. Covers and hoods prevent access from all sides. Fences are generally used to prevent full body access while barriers can only prevent unintentional or unconscious access to the hazardous points. The safety function is essential for the design of guards. Must, for example, the physical guard only prevent access, and/or also retain parts and radiation? Examples of ejected parts: • Breaking/bursting tools (grinding wheels, drills) • Emitted materials (dust, chips, slivers, particles) • Blown out materials (hydraulic oil, compressed air, lubricant, materials) • Parts ejected after the failure of a clamping or handling system Examples of radiation sources: • Thermal radiation from the process or the products (hot surfaces) • Optical radiation from lasers, IR or UV sources • Particle or ion radiation • Strong electromagnetic fields, high frequency equipment • High voltages from test systems or systems for and “safe” are used as qualifiers for better understanding and readability. The terms are defined, as in ISO Guide 51, as “freedom from unacceptable risks” and are not to be understood as absolute protection against hazards. SICK assumes no liability for the interpretation of the terms “safe” and “safety” in this document. 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 7 Subject to change without notice FOREWORD Your editorial team Figure 3: From left to right: Otto Görnemann, Rolf Schumacher, Stephanie Kaiser, Hans-Jörg Stubenrauch, Matthias Kurrus, Harald Schmidt. Machine safeguarding in the work process The requirements on the safeguarding of machinery have changed more and more with the increasing use of