7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 3-15 Subject to change without notice erutcurtS ytilibaileR sisongaiD ecnatsiseR ssecorP Safety level Structure To reduce the susceptibility of a safety component to fault by means of a better structure, the safety-related functions can be executed in parallel on more than one channel. Dual-channel safety components are common in the machine safety sector (see figure below). Each channel can perform the intended safety function. The two channels can be of diverse design (e.g., one channel uses electromechanical components, the other only electronics). Instead of a second equivalent channel, the second channel can also have a pure monitoring function. Single-channel safety components Input Output I L O signal signal Dual-channel safety components Input Monitoring I1 L1 O1 signal Output signal ssorC nosirapmoc Reliability of the components/devices Any failure of a safety component will result in an interruption to the production process. For this reason, it is important to use reliable components. The more reliable a component is, the lower the probability of a dangerous failure. Reliability is a measure of random failures within the life limit; it is normally provided in the following formats: • B figures for electromechanical or pneumatic compo- 10 nents. Here, life limit is determined by switching frequency. B indicates the number of switching cycles until 10% of 10 components fail. • Failure rate λ (lambda value) for electronic components. Often the failure rate is stated in FIT (Failures In Time). One FIT is one failure per 109 hours. Input Monitoring I2 L2 O2 signal Output signal λ etar eruliaF Premature Random failures Wear zone failures Constant low failure value 0 Time Diagnostics for fault detection Certain faults can be detected by diagnostics measures. These include plausibility monitoring, current and voltage monitoring, watchdog functionality, brief function test, etc. Since all faults cannot always be detected, the degree of fault detection must be defined. A Failure Mode and Effects Analysis (FMEA) should be performed for this purpose. For complex de- signs, measures and empirical values from standards provide assistance. Resistance to common cause failures The term “common cause failure” (CCF) is used, for example, to refer to both channels failing simultaneously due to interfer- ence. Appropriate measures shall be taken, e.g., isolated cable rout- ing, suppressors, diversity of components, etc. Input Monitoring I1 L1 O1 signal Output signal Fault ssorC nosirapmoc Monitoring Input I2 L2 O2 signal Output signal Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Risk reduction Process Specification Validated of the safety Safety- software The process combines the following elements that can have an functions related Validation software § effect: specification • Organization and competence • Rules governing design (e.g., specification templates, coding System Integration guidelines) design tests • Test concept and test criteria • Documentation and configuration management Module Module In the safety technology market, a process based on the V- design tests 1 model has proven particularly effective in practice for software design (see figure). Result Implemen- Verification tation Architecture of safety systems In ISO 13849-1, the safety-related architecture is interpreted with the aid of the categories. These basic principles are also 2 retained in North American standards through the description of the system performance. Category B/Category 1 Category B/1 Normal operation Operation with fault Simple/single channel 3 Protective field Free No fault detection. The occurrence of a Occupied c fault will result in a risk. Time The risk can be minimized with reliable and proven components (Category 1). Risk On Signal output Off Category 2 Category 2 Normal operation Operation with fault Single channel with monitoring Free Protective field Faults are detected by carrying out a Occupied test. A risk prevails during the time be- Test cycle tween the occurrence of the fault and the next test. The test rate according to ISO 13849-1 shall be considered. Risk On Signal output Off Category 3 Category 3 Normal operation Operation with fault Dual channel with monitoring (Control reliable) Free Protective field Occupied In the event of a fault, the safety func- tion is retained. The failure is detected either when the On 1 safety function is executed or when the Off Signal outputs next test is carried out. An accumula- On 2 tion of faults may lead to the loss of the Off safety function. 3-16 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Category 4 Category 4 Normal operation Operation with fault Dual channel with multiple fault Free monitoring (Control reliable) Protective field Occupied Despite a fault, the safety function is retained. On Contrary to Category 3, consequential 1 Off faults following failure to detect the ini- Signal outputs 2 On tial fault shall not result in a risk (loss Off of the safety function). Characteristics of safeguarding Characteristics of safeguarding to be considered are: The following sections describe these points in detail. • Properties and applications of guards and protective devices (electro-sensitive, separating, etc. g 3-18) • Position/dimension of guards and protective devices (g 3-44) • Integration of protective devices into the control system 3 (g 3-65) c Technology, selection, and use of safeguarding Safeguarding (technical protective devices) Guards Protective devices g 3-19 Fixed Movable Position fixing With tripping function g 3-19 g 3-20 g 3-39 Pressure- Electro- Two-hand Interlocking guards sensitive sensitive control devices g 3-20 g 3-42 g 3-27 g 3-39 Bumpers Mats and Edges AOPD AOPDDR VBPD and floors and bars g 3-28 g 3-29 g 3-29 plates 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 3-17 Subject to change without notice Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Risk reduction Selection of the protective devices The following table gives a simplified overview about advantages and disadvantages of the various protective devices and their possible misuse. § 1 Protective Device 2 3 c * (Man / Material detection, use on mobile applications) Explanation of symbols: o = neutral + = preferred — = not recommended A comprehensive explanation about the features and the right use of the protective devices is described in the following sections. - OSHA 3170-02R: Safeguarding