Temporarily preventing access to the hazardous point in a stretch film wrapper by means of a safety locking device Retaining parts/substances/radiation If parts can be ejected out of machines or radiation can arise, mechanical protective devices (physical guards) must be used to prevent these hazards. Examples: • Protection hood with special viewing window on a milling machine to protect against ejected shav‐ ings and tool parts • Fence that can hold back a robot Figure 21: Retention of shavings in a processing machine by means of a protection hood 44 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3A – DEFINING THE SAFETY FUNCTIONS Initiating a stop The purpose of a safety-related stop function is to place the machine in a safe state when requested (e.g., if a person approaches). To reduce the required stopping time, it may be advisable to implement a stop function that complies with stop category 1 (IEC 60204-1 "Stop‐ ping", page 35). Additional safety functions may be nec‐ essary to prevent an unexpected restart. Examples: • Opening a protective door with an interlock that has no locking device • Interruption of the light beam of a safety light- beam sensor that protects against access Figure 22: Initiating a stop by a safety multibeam sensor on a pallet handling machine when a person approaches Avoiding an unexpected start-up After the “Initiating a stop” function is triggered or the machine is switched on, it should require deliber‐ ate actions to put the machine into operation. These actions include manually resetting a protective device to prepare for restarting the machine (see also section "Application of reset and restart", page 110) Examples: • Resetting a safety light curtain (see figure: blue “Reset” button) • Resetting the emergency stop device Figure 23: Avoiding the unexpected start-up by deliberate resetting the safety light curtain 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 45 Subject to change without notice 3A – DEFINING THE SAFETY FUNCTIONS Preventing start After the “Initiating a stop” function, technical meas‐ ures should be used to prevent the machine from start‐ ing or being put back into operation as long as there are persons in the hazardous area. Examples: • Use of a trapped key system: Restoration of power is only possible using the transfer key. The transfer key is only available when the means of access (movable physical guard) is closed and locked. • Detection in the active protective field of a horizon‐ tally arranged safety light curtain. The “Initiating a stop” function is implemented by means of the vertical protective field of the safety light curtain. Figure 24: Preventing start-up by means of a horizontal safety light curtain Combination of initiating a stop/preventing start Restart is prevented using the same protective device that initiates the stop as long as there are persons or parts of the body in the hazardous area. Examples: • A two-hand control on single-person workplaces • Use of a safety light curtain so that standing behind or reaching around is not possible (hazard‐ ous point protection) • Use of a safety laser scanner for area protection Figure 25: Initiating a stop and preventing start using a safety laser scanner (hazardous area monitoring) 46 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3A – DEFINING THE SAFETY FUNCTIONS Allowing material passage To move materials in or out of the hazardous area, spe‐ cific features of the materials moved are used for mate‐ rial detection or to automatically differentiate between material and people. The protective device is then not actuated during material transport; however, people are detected. Examples: • Selecting suitable sensors and placing them in appropriate positions enables the material to be detected and the safety function to be tempora‐ rily suspended while the material passes through (muting). • Protective field switching on a safety laser scanner • Horizontal light curtains with integrated algorithm for human-material differentiation Figure 26: Access monitoring and allowing a car body to be transferred through a horizontal safety light curtain with inte‐ grated human-material differentiation NOTE - For more detailed information, see section see "Automatic material passage using ESPE", page 78. Monitoring machine parameters In some applications, it is necessary to monitor various machine parameters for safety-related limits. If a limit is exceeded, suitable measures are initiated (e.g., stop, warning signal). Examples: • Monitoring of speed, temperature, or pressure • Position monitoring for collision avoidance Figure 27: Monitoring the robot position using an inductive proximity sensor 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 47 Subject to change without notice 3A – DEFINING THE SAFETY FUNCTIONS Safeguarding work areas shared by humans and machines If the operation of a machine requires a workspace to which both a worker and hazardous parts of the machine (e.g., a robot) need access at different times, it must be ensured that any contact or collision is avoided. Additional safety functions may be necessary to avoid an unexpected restart. Figure 28: Safeguarding a shared work area for humans and robots using safety light curtains Disabling safety functions manually and for a limited time If it is necessary for setup work or process monitoring to operate the machine with the protective function of the protective devices disabled, a suitable operat‐ ing mode should be provided that meets the following requirements: • Operating mode is only activated when an operat‐ ing mode selector switch is in the corresponding position. • Operating mode locks all other control and operat‐ ing modes of the machine. • Operating mode does not allow machine move‐ ments due to direct or indirect action on sensors or linked sequences. • Operating mode allows dangerous machine func‐ tions only while command devices (e.g., enabling switch) are continuously actuated and under reduced risk conditions (e.g. limitation of speed, movement path, function duration). Figure 29: Safe changing of the film roll on a stretch film wrapper with the movable guard (door) open through a com‐ bination