Equipment and Protecting Employees from Amputations (g www.osha.gov/Publications/osha3170.pdf) - ANSI B11.19 - RIA TR R15.406 3-18 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice / tuo yfl nac straP drazah noitaidaR daolnu /daol tneuqerF seitivitca rotarepo itluM noitcetorp eb ton nac enihcaM emit ni / ylefas deppots ytivitcudorP eerf ecnanetniaM * serutaeF laicepS Critical / foreseeable misuse Fixed Guards Removed, wrong dimensioning + — + + — + — or location Movable Guards Easy defeat of interlock + o + o o o — possible, wrong dimensioning or location Opto-Electronic Devices Wrong dimensioning or location, — + + — + + + allowing reaching over /under, standing behind possible Two-Hand Devices Only one devices used for multi — o — — o o — operator processes, wrong location Mats, Bumpers Defeated after mechanical — + + — + — o defect, wrong dimensioning or location Risk reduction Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Guards Guards are physical barriers, designed as part of the machine Examples of ejected materials or parts: or installed around it, that prevent or avoid the operator reach- • Fracturing/bursting tools (grinding wheels, drills) ing the hazardous point directly. They can be fixed or movable. • Materials produced (dust, chips, slivers, particles) Covers, fences, barriers, flaps, doors, etc. are guards. Covers • Blown out materials (hydraulic oil, compressed air, lubricant, and lids prevent access from all sides. Fences are generally materials) used to prevent full body access while barriers can only prevent • Parts ejected after the failure of a clamping or handling unintentional or inadvertent access to the hazardous points. system The safety function is essential for the design of guards. Gener- Examples of emitted radiation: ally speaking, barriers are used to prevent access of individuals • Thermal radiation from the process or the products (hot to the hazardous point, whereas shields are used to contain surfaces) hazards which could be expelled or emitted from the hazardous • Optical radiation from lasers, IR or UV sources point. In some applications, physical guards may be designed • Particle or ion radiation to fulfill the function of both a barrier and a shield. • Strong electromagnetic fields, high frequency devices • High voltages from test systems or systems for discharging electrostatic charges (paper and plastic webs) General requirements of guards • Protective devices (guards) shall be designed to be ad- The mechanical requirements for guards intended to 3 equately robust and durable to ensure they withstand the contain radiation or ejected materials are generally higher environmental conditions to be expected during operation. than those for fixed guards intended to prevent access of c The properties of guards shall be maintained during the personnel. entire life cycle of the machine. Damage (fracture or deformation) to a guard is permitted • They shall not cause any additional hazards. in cases in which the risk assessment determines that no • It shall not be possible to easily bypass the guards or render hazards will result. them ineffective. • Guards shall not restrict observation of the working process See ANSI B11.19 for additional requirements of vision/ more than necessary, insofar that observation is necessary. viewing panels expected to perform as a safeguard. • Guards shall be firmly held in place. • They shall be fastened either by systems that can only be opened with tools, or they shall be interlocked to the hazard- ous machine function. • As far as possible, they should not remain in the protective position if unfastened. - Guards: ANSI B11.19, RIA TR R15.406, CSA Z432, NR-12, ISO 13857, ISO 14120 - Principles for safe machine design: ANSI B11.0, ISO 12100 (A-type standards) Mounting guards Guards that are not removed or opened very often or are only Example: Types of fastening for guards removed or opened for maintenance work shall be fastened to the machine frame so that they can only be removed with tools (e.g., spanner, key). Fastening elements on guards that are disassembled or removed regularly shall be designed so that they cannot be lost Allowed Not allowed without interlocking (e.g., captive screws). Other types of fastening such as quick-release fasteners, screws with knobs, knurled screws, and wing nuts are only al- lowed if the guard is interlocked. 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 3-19 Subject to change without notice Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Risk reduction Adjustable physical guards Adjustable guards provide a means of adapting the guard can be adapted to many types of operations, they may require § to the specific work piece or stock being introduced into the frequent adjustments which may lead the operator to make workspace. They must be kept in place with fasteners that them ineffective. These types of guards are not as secure and make removal or opening impossible without the use of ap- tamper resistance as a fixed guard but can offer the same level propriate tools. These guards should not become a hazard of protection if applied correctly. between themselves and moving machine parts. While they 1 Movable guards Movable guards that need to be opened frequently or regularly Mechanical locking of movable guards without tools (e.g., for setup work), shall be functionally linked As far as feasible, movable guards must be joined to the ma- to the hazardous machine function (interlocking, locking de- chine so that they can be securely held in the open position by vice). The term “frequent opening” is used, e.g., if the guard is hinges, guides, etc. Positive-fit mountings are preferred. Friction opened at least once during a shift. mountings (e.g., ball joints) are not recommended due to their 2 If hazards are to be expected when a guard is opened (e.g., very diminishing effectiveness (wear). long stopping time), locking devices are required. Example: Locking guards Ergonomic requirements to be met by movable guards Mechanical Hasp Ball Joint Ergonomic aspects are also significant during the design of 3 protective devices. Guards will only be accepted by employees if they do not hinder setup, maintenance, and other similar c activities