automation. In the past, protective devices in the manufacturing process were something of a nuisance; for this reason, they were often not used at all. Today, innovative technologies make it easy to integrate protective devices into the manufacturing process. As a result, they are no longer a hindrance for the operator and even help productivity in many cases. For this reason, reliable protective devices that are integrated into the manufacturing process are indispensable. 8 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice FOREWORD Figure 4: Development of a safety concept Safety is a basic need Safety is a basic human need. Studies show that people continuously subjected to stressful situations are more susceptible to psychosomatic illnesses. Even though it is possible to adapt to extreme situations over the long term, they will place a great strain on the individual. It is often said, however, that more “safety” results in lower productivity – the opposite is actually the case: Higher levels of safety result in increased motivation and satisfaction and, as a result, higher productivity. The following requirement on the machine discharging electrostatic charges (paper and plastic webs) 60 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION NOTE The mechanical requirements for guards intended to contain radiation or ejected materials are generally higher than those for fixed guards intended to prevent access of persons. Damage (breakage or deformation) to a physical guard is permitted in cases in which the risk assessment determines that no hazards will result. General requirements on physical guards • Protective devices (guards) shall be designed to be adequately robust and durable to ensure they withstand the environmental conditions to be expected during operation. The properties of guards shall be maintained during the entire period of use of the machines. • They shall not cause any additional dangers. • It shall not be possible to easily bypass the guards or render them ineffective. • Guards shall not restrict observation of the working process more than necessary, insofar that observation is necessary. • Guards shall be firmly held in place. • They shall be fastened either by systems that can only be opened with tools, or they shall be interlocked with the dangerous movement. • As far as possible, they should not remain in the protective position if unfastened. NOTE - Physical guards: ISO 14120 - Principles for safe machine design: ISO 12100 (type-A standard) Mounting guards Guards that are not removed or opened very often or are only removed or opened for maintenance work shall be fastened to the machine frame so that they can only be removed with tools (e.g., spanner, key). The process to remove them must be similar to a mounting operation and tools must be required. Fastening elements on guards that are disassembled or removed regularly shall be designed so that they cannot be lost (e.g., captive screws). Other types of fastening such as quick-release fasteners, screws with knobs, knurled screws, and wing nuts are only allowed if the guard is interlocked. Allowed Not permitted Figure 41: Example: Types of fastening for physical guards Movable physical guards Movable guards that need to be opened frequently or regularly without tools (e.g., for setup work) must be functionally linked to the dangerous machine function (interlocking, locking device). The term frequent opening is used, e.g., if the guard is opened at least once during a shift. If hazards are to be expected when a guard is opened (e.g., very long stopping time), locking devices are required. 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 61 Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Ergonomic requirements to be met by movable physical guards Ergonomic aspects are also significant during the design of protective devices. Guards will only be accepted by employees if they do not hinder setup, maintenance, and other similar activities any more than necessary. Movable physical guards must meet the following ergonomic criteria: • Easy (e.g., one-handed) opening and closing, lifting, or moving • Functional handle • Opened guards should allow convenient access. Mechanical locking of movable physical guards As far as feasible, movable physical guards must be joined to the machine so that they can be securely held in the open position by hinges, guides, etc. Positive-fit mountings are preferred. Friction mountings (e.g., ball fasteners) are not recommended due to their diminishing effectiveness (wear). Table 20: Example: Locking guards Good Possible Interlocking physical guards Physical guards must be interlocked if they have the following characteristics: • Are actuated cyclically or opened regularly (doors, flaps) • Can be removed without tools or easily (e.g., covers) • Protect against a potentially serious hazard Interlocking means that the opening of the guard is converted into an electrical signal that stops the dangerous movement. Physical guards are normally interlocked using position switches. The interlocking of a physical guard should fulfill the following functions: • The dangerous machine function cannot be initiated with the guard open (missing) (preventing start). • The dangerous machine functions are stopped when the guard is opened (removed) (initiating a stop). The following section describes the essential requirements on interlocking devices associated with physical guards according to ISO 14119. 62 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION There are four types of interlocking device: Table 21: Types of interlocking devices according to ISO 14119 Designation Actuation Actuator SICK product Principle Examples Principle Examples Example i10P Switching cam i10R Type 1 Not coded Turning lever Physical con‐ Mechanical tact, force, pres‐ sure i10H Hinge i16S Shaped actuator (switching rod) Type 2 Coded Key – IME2S Inductive Suitable ferromagnetic materials Magnets, electromagnets MM12 1 Magnetic All suitable materials CM18 1 Type 3 Capacitive Not coded All suitable materials UM12 1 Non-contact Ultrasound All suitable materials WT 12 1 Optical Magnetic Coded magnet RE1/2 Type 4 RFID Coded Coded RFID