without modifica- tion. Examples of established fieldbus systems include but are not limited to: • AS-i Safety at Work • DeviceNet Safety • PROFIsafe 3-68 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Selection criteria The criteria for the selection of a control system model are ini- tially the number of safety functions to be implemented as well as the scope of the logical operators on the input signals. The functionality of the logical operators — e.g., simple AND, flipflop, or special functions such as muting — also affects the selection. 3 c Number of safety functions 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 3-69 Subject to change without notice srosnes fo rebmuN Safety relay Parameterizable controller Configurable controller Programmable controller Design matrix 0 = logic 0 or OFF S = actuator enable (restart) I = logic 1 or ON – = any status tceffE Safety outputs stupni ytefaS stoboR tfel no elbaT thgir no elbaT ... ... Simple AND logic operator Input 1 Output 1 Input 2 Muting function logic operator Light Curtain Output enable A1 Muting Sensor Muting Lamp Control A2 Muting Sensor A3 Muting Sensor Muting Status A4 Muting Sensor Override Required Muting Error Override Pushbutton MUTING Conveyor Signal Function block C1 Signal Software specification To prevent the occurrence of a dangerous state, software-based logic units in particular shall be designed so that they can be relied upon to prevent faults in the logic. To detect systematic failures, a thorough systematic check should be made by some- one other than the designer and thus the principle of counter- checking by a second person applied. A possible way of implementing this specification is what is known as the design matrix. Here, certain combinations of safety-related input signals for specific cases (e.g., “position lost,” or “robot left”) are combined. These cases shall act on the machine functions via the safety-related outputs in ac- cordance with the requirements of the safety function. This method is also used by SICK during the design of application software. A review with all those involved in the project is sensible. In the case of programs that are poorly documented and unstructured, faults occur during subsequent modifications; in particular, there is a danger of unknown dependencies or side Case effects, as they are often referred to. Good specifications and program documentation are very effective in preventing faults, Position lost 0 – – particularly if the software is developed externally. Robot left S – – Robot right S – – Robot center S – – Access left S I – Access right S I – Emergency stop 0 0 0 ... Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Risk reduction Power control elements The safety function initiated by the protective devices and the logic unit shall stop hazardous machine functions. For this purpose, § the actuator elements or work elements are switched off by power control elements. - Principle of switch off/power shutdown: ISO 13849-2 (B-type standard) Contactors N/C Electromechanical contactors are the most commonly used type of power control element. One or more contactors can ≥0.5 mm 1 form a safety function subsystem by combining special selec- N/O tion criteria, wiring, and technical measures. By protecting the contacts against overcurrent and short-circuits, over-sizing (normally by a factor of 2), and other measures, a contac- tor is considered a proven component. To be able to perform diagnostics on contactors for safety functions, unambiguous 2 feedback of the output state is necessary, known as “external device monitoring” (EDM). This requirement can be met using a contactor with positively guided contacts. The contacts are ≥0.5 mm N/C positively guided when all contacts within a set are mechani- cally linked in such a way that normally open contacts and 3 normally closed contacts can never be closed simultaneously at any point during the intended mission time. c The term “positively guided contacts” refers primarily to N/O auxiliary contactors and auxiliary contacts. A defined distance between the contacts of at least 0.5 mm at the normally closed contact must be ensured even in the event of a fault (welded N/O contact). As with contactors with low switching capacity (< 4 kW), there is essentially no difference between the main contact elements and the auxiliary contact elements. It is also possible to use the term “positively guided contacts” to refer to those small contactors. On larger contactors, what are known as “mirror contacts” are used: While any main contact on a contactor is closed, no mirror contact (auxiliary normally closed contact) is allowed to be closed. A typical application for mirror contacts is the highly reliable monitoring of the output state of a contactor in control circuits on machines. 3-70 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice GA relleoM :ecruoS Contact system of a contactor with positively guided contacts. A normally open contact is welded. Suppressor elements Inductances such as coils on valves or contactors must be an effect on the release delay and, therefore, on the required equipped with a suppressor to limit transient voltage spikes minimum distance of the protective device (g 3-44). A simple on shutdown. In this way, the switching element is protected diode for arc suppression can result in a time to respond against overload (in particular against overvoltage on particu- (switch to OFF) up to 14 times longer. This must be taken into larly sensitive semiconductors). As a rule, such circuits have account for when calculating the minimum safety distance. Suppressor Diode Diode combination Varistor RC element (across inductance) U Protection against overvoltage Very high High Limited High 1) Release delay Very long Short Very short Very short 1) (delay in switching OFF) (relevant to safety) (but must be taken into (not relevant to safety) (not relevant to safety) account) 1) The element must be exactly matched to the inductance! Risk reduction Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Drive technology When considering safety functions, drives represent a central Safety functions on servo amplifiers and frequency