hazardous areas until the dangerous machine state has passed. Locking devices are also required if a process shall not be interrupted (process protection only, not a safety function). The figure below shows the possible designs of locking devices. Table 25: Principles of operation of locking devices Principle Shape Force Functionality Spring applied and power Power ON applied and Power ON applied and Power ON applied and ON released spring released power ON released power ON released Name Mechanical locking device Electrical locking device Pneumatic/hydraulic lock‐ Electromagnetic locking (preferred for safeguard‐ (preferred for process pro‐ ing device device ing) tection) Bistable coil 66 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Releasing the locking device using power can be performed as follows: • Time-control: In the case that a timer is used, the failure of this device shall not reduce the delay. • Automatic: Only if there is no dangerous machine condition (e.g., due to standstill monitoring devices). • Manual: The time between unlocking and the release of the protective device shall be greater than the time it takes for the dangerous machine function to stop. Mechanical and electrical integration of locking devices The same rules generally apply to locking devices as to interlocking devices. In relation to the principle of positive opening, attention is to be paid to which contacts should be positively opened. Guard signaling contacts indicate when the actuator has been withdrawn, that the guard is open. These contacts may be positive opening, but this is not always required. Auxiliary and escape release, emergency release The risk assessment may show that in the case of a fault or in an emergency situation, measures are required for freeing personnel trapped in the hazardous area. A distinction must be made between concepts for auxiliary release (using a tool) and for emergency release or escape release (without a tool), as follows: • Emergency release of a locking device Possibility of manually unlocking the locking device without tools from outside the protected area in case of emergency. A locking device with emergency release may be required, for example, to free trapped persons or to fight a fire. • Auxiliary release of a locking device Possibility of manually unlocking the locking device using a tool or a key from outside the protected area in case of malfunction. A locking device with auxiliary release is not suitable for emergency release or escape release of the locking device. • Escape release of a locking device Possibility of manually unlocking the locking device without the use of tools within the protected area in order to leave the area. Locking force required An essential criterion when selecting a locking device is the force required to hold the guard. Annex I of the ISO 14119 standard specifies the maximum force that can be applied to the most commonly used movable physical guards. Table 26: Required locking force for physical guards according to Annex I of the ISO 14119 standard Direction of force Position Application of force Force [N] Horizontal pulling Sitting Single handed 600 (dragging) Standing, torso and Bi-manual horizontal Vertical upward 1400 legs bent, feet parallel grips Single-handed horizon‐ Vertical upward Standing, free 1200 tal grips Horizontal, parallel to Standing upright, feet body symmetry plane parallel or in step pos‐ Bi-manual vertical grips 1100 backward ture pulling 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 67 Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Direction of force Position Application of force Force [N] Horizontal, parallel to Standing upright, feet body symmetry plane parallel or in step pos‐ Bi-manual vertical grips 1300 forward ture pushing Horizontal, normal to Shoulder pushing on Standing, torso bent body symmetry plane the metal plate 1300 sideward body off side Horizontal, normal to Single-handed vertical Standing, feet parallel 700 body symmetry plane grip Trapped key systems One way of preventing unintentional starting is to use trapped key systems. Keys must be used to activate specific functions and operating modes, see table 27, page 68. Figure 1: When a key is removed, a stop signal is generated and the dangerous state is stopped. Figure 2: In the safe state (machine stopped), the safety locking device is unlocked and the door can be opened. Figure 3: The service technician takes the key inside the plant. Inside, the inserted key enables the “setup mode” operating mode. Dangerous machine movements can now be made at reduced speed (turning the robot sideways) by means of an enabling switch. Automatic operation is disabled in this situation. The key is then removed again, the service technician leaves the hazardous area, closes the door, and finally reinserts the key into the adapter. The door is locked and automatic operation is now possible again. Table 27: Example: Trapped key system 1 2 3 Fault masking for series connection of interlocking devices with volt-free contacts The ISO 14119 standard and the ISO TR 24119 technical report define, among other things, the requirements for the logical series connection of position switches. The risk of possible “fault masking” in the conventional series connection of the safety switches limits the achievable performance level and makes such series connection impermissible in some applications. Fault masking can occur when switches with volt-free contacts are connected in series. Since the evaluation unit only evaluates the signals of the complete series, fault detection can be prevented. The fault, e.g. a short-circuit or cross-circuit, is either not detected at all or reset (masked) after detection as a result of the actuation of another 68 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION protective device with a fault-free switch. This means that operation of dangerous machine functions is possible despite the presence of an isolated fault. The accumulation of masked faults may then lead to the loss of the safety function. Example for the development of fault masking If it is