for workplace safety. This means, in part, that an organization must have the neces­ sary capability both as a product safety testing laboratory and as a product certification organization to receive OSHA recognition as an NRTL. OSHA’s recognition is not a government license or position, or a delegation or grant of government authority. In­ stead, the recognition is an acknowledgment that an organization Link to OSHA NRTL information: - http://www.osha.gov/dts/otpca/nrtl/ §§--1144 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Laws, regulations, directives, standards Test bodies, insurance providers, and authorities Laws, regulations, directives, standards Test bodies, insurance providers, and authorities Test bodies, insurance providers, and authorities European test bodies § Test bodies providing safety advice Notified bodies Companies that want to know whether their machines are com­ Each EC member state has the obligation to nominate test bod­ pliant with the applicable European directives and standards ies as per the minimum requirements defined in the Machinery can obtain advice on safety aspects in the UK from the HSE Directive, and to notify the European Commission in Brussels of and DTI, for example. these test bodies for listing. Only these test bodies are authorized to perform EC type Accredited test bodies examinations and to issue EC type examination certificates for Accredited test bodies are test bodies that certify compliance the machinery and safety components listed in Annex IV of the with the test procedures and test criteria from recognized Machinery Directive. Not all notified test bodies can test every national institutions. These test bodies may include institu­ type of product or machine. Many test bodies are only notified tions for occupational safety and health which normally employ for specific areas. highly competent specialists. Insurances Berufsgenossenschaften (professional associations)/ Insurance companies IFA — Institute for Occupational Safety and Health of the Many insurance companies have departments that offer expert German Social Accident Insurance specialist advice, particularly in relation to the prevention of In Germany the Berufsgenossenschaften and other organiza­ liability risks that may result from ignorance or failure to comply tions cover the legal accident insurance obligation. The Berufs­ with legal requirements. genossenschaften are organized by branches so that specific requirements in the individual sectors of the economy can be better met. Market surveillance – Authorities In the states of the EU and EFTA, work safety and market sur­ • In Switzerland, market supervision is the responsibility of veillance are the responsibility of national authorities. the State Secretariat for Economic Affairs (SECO). The Swiss • In Germany, this is you is an extensive guide on the legal background This guide is aimed at manufacturers, operating organiza- relating to machinery and on the selection and use of protec- tions, designers, system engineers, and all individuals who are tive devices. We will show you various ways in which you can responsible for machine safety. (For reasons of legibility we will safeguard machinery and protect people against accidents use mostly male terms in this guide.) taking into account the applicable laws, regulations, directives, LEGAL DISCLAIMER and standards. The examples and statements given are the result of our many years of practical experience and are to be TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, considered generic, not specific, applications. SICK, REGARDLESS OF THE CAUSE OF ACTION, SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY OF ANY KIND ARISING OR RELATED TO THIS SAFETY This guide describes the legal requirements relating to machin- GUIDE, OR THE CONTENTS FOR INJURY, DEATH, DAMAGE ery in North America and their implementation. The safety re- TO PROPERTY, LOSS OF USE, LOSS OF OPPORTUNITY, LOSS quirements relating to machinery in other regions (e.g., Europe, OF PROFITS, INCREASED COSTS, OR ANY CONSEQUENTIAL, Asia) are described in separate versions of this guide. INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES. THE It is not possible to derive any claims whatsoever from the SAFETY GUIDE IS MADE AVAILABLE TO YOU “AS IS.” TO THE following information, irrespective of the legal basis, as every FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, SICK DIS- machine requires a specific solution against the background of CLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, national and international regulations and standards. Review of INCLUDING ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS this guide is not a substitute for your own, independent, legal FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGEMENT OF analysis. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS. SICK DOES the responsibility of the "Länder" agen­ National Accident Insurance Fund (Suva), noted for its high cies for occupational health and safety. levels of technical expertise, is responsible for enforcement. • Austria has a range of occupational safety inspectorates. Machine manufacturers can also contact national authori­ ties for expert advice in relation to questions about the safety of machinery and safety at work. - You will find a list of important standards in the “Useful links” section of the Annex g i­12. 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK §§--1155 Subject to change without notice Laws, regulations, directives, standards Summary Summary Laws, regulations, directives, standards Summary: Regulations and standards Regulations Standards § • National regulations require safe and healthy working • Technical standards specify in detail the objectives defined conditions. in the regulations. • Regulations typically state that where hazards exist, safe­ • In the absence of a national standard or regulation, inter­ guarding needs to be used. national standards can be used. • In addition to federal regulations, certain areas may have • The application of harmonized European / International specific requirements. Consult local, state and federal standards justifies the “presumption of conformity”, i.e., authorities to determine what may apply to your specific the presumption the machine meets the requirements of application. the Machinery Directive. In other words, if you select and apply the right standards for your machine or system, you can assume that you will meet the legal requirements. In specific cases the obligations on the manufacturer can go beyond the content of the standards, if for example, a standard no longer reflects the state of the art. • There are A­type standards (basic safety standards), B­type standards (group