• After a change of operating mode between setup and nor- mal operation, the machine is stopped. A new manual start command is necessary. • Adapting the monitored area of a laser scanner to the speed of the vehicle (see figure) 3-6 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Technical protective measures Emergency stop Emergency stop is a complementary protective measure and not considered a primary safeguard because it does not pre- vent or detect access to a hazard point. However, an emergency stop can be used to further reduce risk. The safety level of this function shall be defined based on the risk assessment of the machine. In particular, influencing environmental factors (e.g., vibration, method of actuation, etc.) shall be considered (see also section “Actions in an emer- 1 gency” g 3-43). - See NFPA 79, ANSI B11.19, IEC 60204-1 and ISO 13850 Safety-relevant indications and alarms Safety-related indications are means of providing the user with 3 information about impending hazards (e.g., overspeed, pre- start warning) or possible residual risks. These kind of signals a can also be used to warn the operator before automatic protec- tive measures are initiated. • Warning devices must be designed and arranged so that they can be easily checked and inspected • The warning equipment should be regularly inspected in accordance with the information for use provided by the supplier • Over saturation of sensory inputs should be avoided, in particular where audible alarms are concerned Examples: • Interlocking indications • AGV speed and start-up warning devices (see figure) • Muting lamps 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 3-7 Subject to change without notice Technical protective measures Risk reduction Other functions Other functions can also be executed by safety-related devices, Examples: even if they are not used to protect people. When used, other • Tool and machine protection functions must be implemented so as not to impair the safety • Presence Sensing Device Initiation (PSDI) mode (cycle initia- functions themselves. tion g3-38) • Status of the protective device is also used for automation tasks (e.g., navigation) 1 Summary: Definition of the safety functions Define which safety functions are necessary for risk reduction: • Permanently preventing access • Allowing material passage • Temporarily preventing access • Monitoring machine parameters • Retaining parts/substances/radiation • Disabling safety functions manually and for a limited time • Initiating a stop • Combining or switching safety functions • Avoiding unexpected startup • Emergency stop • Preventing start • Safety-relevant indications and alarms • Combination of initiating a stop/preventing start 3 a 3-8 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Technical protective measures Risk reduction Technical protective measures Step 3b: Determination of the required safety level Often, machine-specific (C-type) stan- If no C-type standard is available for dards specify the required safety level . the particular machine, or no particular The required safety level must be defined specifications have been made in the separately for each safety function, and C-type standard, the required safety level applies for all devices involved, such as: may be determined using one of the following standards: • The sensor(s)/protective device(s) • The evaluating logic unit(s) • ANSI B11 .0 • The actuator(s) (e .g ., contactors, • ANSI B11 .19 valves) • ANSI B11 .26 • ANSI B11 .TR4 • CSA Z432 • IEC 62061 • IEC 61508 • ISO 13849-1 3 The application of the standards ensures Most standards are based on the follow- that the effort for implementation is ing parameters from the risk evaluation: b reasonable for the risk defined. • The severity of the possible injury/ The protection of an operator who manu- damage to health ally inserts and removes parts at a metal • Frequency and/or duration of expo- press requires different consideration sure to the hazard compared to the protection of an opera- • The possibility of preventing or avoid- tor who works on a machine on which ing the hazard the maximum risk is the trapping of a The combination of the parameters de- finger. termines the safety level required . In addition, there can be different risks During the application of the procedures on the same machine in different phases described in these standards for the of the life of the machine at different determination of the level of safety, the hazardous points . Here, safety functions machine is considered without protective are to be defined individually for each devices . phase of life and hazard . In this chapter ... System performance requirements in ANSI / CSA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3-10 Required performance level (PLr) according to ISO 13849-1 . . . . . . . 3-10 Safety integrity level (SIL) according to IEC 62061 . . . . . . . . . 3-11 Area of application of ISO 13849-1 and IEC 62061 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3-11 Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3-11 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 3-9 Subject to change without notice Technical protective measures Risk reduction § 1 Required performance level (PLr) according to ISO 13849-1 This standard also uses a risk graph to determine the required are used to determine the magnitude of the risk . The result of 2 safety level . The parameters severity, frequency and probability the procedure is a “required performance level” (PLr) . Frequency and/or PLr - 3 duration of hazard required S S1 2 : : M Se in ri o o r us F F 1 2 : : S Fr e e ld q o u m en , t s , h lo o n rt g d d u u r r a a t t io io n n