and structures in Europe As a rule, each EU member state has its own standardization • If similar national standards exist for adopted European organization, e.g., DIN in Germany, ON in Austria, BSI in the standards, the national standards shall be withdrawn. § United Kingdom, AFNOR in France. These standardization or­ • If no applicable European standards exist for specific ganizations prepare and publish national standards as per the aspects or machinery, existing national standards can be legal requirements of the member state concerned. To provide applied. harmonized health and safety in the European Community and • A national standardization organization is only allowed to to remove trade barriers, the European standards are adopted prepare a new national standard if this intention has been by the national standardization organizations. The following announced and there is no interest at European level (at principles apply to the relationship between national and Euro­ CEN or CENELEC). pean standards: European standards for machinery safety To be able to implement the objectives and requirements de­ A harmonized European standard is produced as follows: fined in the European directives in practice, technical standards 1. The EU Commission, as the executive organ of the EU, issues shall describe and specify these requirements in detail. a mandate to CEN or CENELEC to prepare a European stan­ Standards which describe the requirements of European direc­ dard to specify in detail the requirements of a directive. tives in concrete detail in such a way that conformity with the 2. The preparatory work is undertaken in international forums standards provides presumption of conformity with the direc­ in which the technical specifications to meet the essential tives are classed as harmonized standards. safety requirements in the directive(s) are defined. The status of the standard is indicated by various abbrevia­ 3. As soon as the standard is accepted by a balloting, it is tions: published in the Official Journal of the EU. The standard shall also be published in a member state (e.g., as DIN EN). It is • A standard with the prefix “EN” is recognized and can be ap­ then a harmonized European standard. plied in all EU states. • A standard with the prefix “prEN” is currently in preparation • A document that also has “TS” as a prefix is a technical. specification and is used as a preliminary standard. These documents exist as CLC/TS or as CEN/TS. • A document that also has “TR” as a prefix is a report on the state of the art. • A harmonized European standard is used as a reference and replaces all EU national standards on the same subject. • The conformity of a safety component or a machine with the applicable harmonized standards provides presumption of conformity with the essential health and safety requirements defined in directives, e.g., in the Machinery Directive. - Overview of standardization: http://www.normapme.com/ - A list of the standards with presumption of conformity with the directives is available at http://ec.europa.eu/ • The application of standards, independent of whether they are harmonized or not, is not a requirement of the Machinery Directive. However, the application of harmonized standards justifies what is referred to as the “presumption of conformity” that the machine meets the requirements of the Machinery Directive. • If a C-type standard exists for a type of machine, then this standard has priority over all other A-type and B-type standards applicable in that region and any information in this Guide. In this case, only the C-type standard applied justifies the pre­ sumption of conformity for meeting the requirements of the Machinery Directive. 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK §§--1133 Subject to change without notice Laws, regulations, directives, standards Test bodies, insurance providers, and authorities Test bodies, insurance providers, and authorities Laws, regulations, directives, standards Nationally recognized testing laboratories § OSHA Safety Regulations, which are U.S. law, contain require­ has the necessary qualifications to perform safety testing and ments for “approval“ (i.e., testing and certification) of certain certification of the specific products covered within its scope of products by a Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory (NRTL). recognition. As a result, OSHA can accept products “properly These Safety requirements are found in Title 29 of the Code certified” by the NRTL. “Properly certified” generally means: of Federal Regulations (29 CFR), and the provisions for NRTL • The product is labeled or marked with the registered certifi­ certification are generally in Part 1910 (29 CFR Part 1910). cation mark of the NRTL The requirements help protect workers by ensuring products are • The NRTL issues the certification for a product covered designed for safe use in the workplace. An NRTL generally certifies within the scope of a test standard for which OSHA has products for a manufacturer. recognized it Many of these OSHA requirements pertain to equipment for • The NRTL issues the certification from one of its sites (i.e., which OSHA does not require an NRTL certification. The only locations) that OSHA has recognized. products covered under the NRTL Program are those for which Note: OSHA does not approve or disapprove products specifi­ OSHA regulations require certification by an NRTL. Whether or not cally. In terms of OSHA’s usage, “NRTL” is not treated as an OSHA requires NRTL certification, an employer subject to OSHA’s acronym but just as a group of initials. As such, the indefinite requirements must ensure it complies with the provisions of the article “an” precedes these initials in singular usage. Safety Standards applicable to its operations. Some people think that a product must have UL certification An NRTL is an organization that OSHA has “recognized“ as meet­ when in fact any of the OSHA recognized NRTLs for the specific ing the legal requirements in 29 CFR 1910.7. In brief, these product are appropriate. Some of the recognized NRTLs for the requirements are the capability, control programs, complete U.S.A. and Canada include but are not limited to TUV, CSA, and independence, and reporting and complaint handling procedures UL. to test and certify specific types of products