protective measures • Instructions for protective measures to be taken by the user and personal protective equipment requirements • Conditions under which requirements with regard to stability are met in the various phases of the machine’s life cycle • Safety notes on transport, handling, and storage • Instructions on the procedures to be followed in the event of accidents or incidents and for safe troubleshoot‐ ing • Instructions on safe setup and maintenance and the required protective measures associated with these • Specification of the spare parts to be used which may affect the health and safety of operating personnel Documentation NOTE The Safexpert® software from the company ibf ("Risk assessment using Safexpert®", page 27) makes it easy to meet the requirements on the technical documentation. For instance the user can integrate information from the risk assessment directly in the instruction handbook. 152 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 4 – INFORMATION FOR USE Figure 124: Safexpert® operating instructions wizard Summary of steps 2, 3 and 4 for risk reduction General To reduce the risks posed by the analyzed hazard, proceed in accordance with the 3-step method: 1 Design the machine so that the risk is eliminated as far as possible. 2 Define, apply, and check the required protective measures. 3 Define how any remaining residual risks can be reduced and provide this information to the user. Technical protective measure • Either of the ISO 13849-1 (PL) or IEC 62061 (SIL) standards can provide assistance with regard to functional safety. • Define the safety functions and determine the required safety level for each. • Draft the safety concept. Select the most effective protective devices and how they will be assembled and integrated into the control system. • Make sure that the protective measures are implemented effectively and that the required safety level is achieved. 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 153 Subject to change without notice 5 – OVERALL VALIDATION 5 – Overall validation As functional safety is only one component of risk reduction, all measures (design and build, technological, and organizational) shall be assessed for their overall effect as part of an overall validation process. Figure 125: Service employee from SICK performing an overall validation of a machine In practice, therefore, it may be the case that an individual technical measure does not reduce risk however a satisfactory result is achieved in the overall context. Sufficient risk reduction can be considered to have been achieved if all of the following questions can be answered with “yes”: • Have all operating conditions in all phases of the machine's life cycle been taken into account? • Was the 3-step method used? • Have the hazards been dealt with or the risks posed by the hazards minimized to the fullest possible practical extent? • Is there an assurance that the measures taken will not result in new hazards? • Have users been given sufficient information about and warning of the residual risks? • Is there an assurance that the protective measures that have been taken will not impair the working conditions of operating personnel? • Are the protective measures that have been taken compatible with one another? • Has sufficient consideration been given to the possible consequences of using the machine in a non-com‐ mercial or non-industrial environment? • Is there an assurance that the measures taken will not unduly impair the function of the machine as intended? • Has the risk been reasonably reduced? NOTE SICK offers to check the entire machine with regard to significant hazards as part of a safety inspection. This service is performed by the safety specialists at SICK. 154 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 6 – PLACING ON THE MARKET 6 – Placing on the market Once conformity has been ascertained in the context of overall validation (if applicable by involving a notified Body), during the course of the preparation of technical documentation, the declaration of conformity can be issued and the CE marking added to the machine. The declaration of conformity shall take into account all European directives applicable to the machine. Figure 126: Form of the CE marking according to the Machi‐ nery Directive 2006/42 / EC Technical documentation The scope of the technical documentation is described in Annex VII, Section A of the Machinery Directive. For incomplete machines, the particular requirements of Annex VII, Section B of the Machinery Directive apply. Based on the technical documentation, it shall be possible to assess the extent to which the machine meets the requirements of the Machinery Directive. Insofar as is necessary for the purpose of this assessment, the technical documentation shall contain the design, build, and function of the machine. These documents must be drafted in one or more official European Community languages. This does not apply to the operating instructions of the machine, for which the special provisions of Annex I, Number 1.7.4.1 apply. Retention period and deadlines The technical documentation must be held ready for the responsible authorities of the member states as follows: • From the day of construction of the machine • For at least 10 years following completion of the last unit • The technical documentation does not necessarily have to be physically located in the European Community and also does not need to be in material form (e.g., digital storage is permitted). However, the person designated in the EU declaration of conformity shall be able to make the technical documentation available by a reasonable deadline. NOTE Note: If the technical documentation is not submitted to the competent national authorities upon justified request, this may give rise to doubts! The question may arise: Does the machine in question actually comply with the essential health and safety requirements? NOTE -See also section "Issuing the declaration of conformity", page 14. -See also section "EU conformity assessment procedure for machinery and safety components", page 16. Scope of the technical documentation