will place • It is often said that more “safety” results in lower a great strain on the individual. 2-3 hazard Has the risk been Yes reasonably reduced? No Risk reduction by means of technical protective measures g 3-1 No Has the risk been Yes Have new hazards reasonably been generated? reduced? No Yes Risk reduction by means of administrative measures g 4-1 Has the risk been Yes Repeat: reasonably Process of reduced? Risk assessment g 1-1 No - General principles of risk reduction: ISO 12100, ANSI B11.0, ANSI/PMMI B155.1, RIA TR R15.406, ANSI/ASSE Z244.1, CSA Z432 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 2-1 Subject to change without notice The 3-step method Risk reduction Risk reduction strategies According to industry standards, the goal of implementing a risk Risk Reduction Strategy Examples reduction strategy is to reduce risk to personnel to an “accept- 1. Elimination or • Eliminate human interaction in able” level. The definition of an “acceptable” level of residual substitution by the process risk is ultimately the decision of the owner of the equipment. changes in machine • Eliminate pinch points (increase In general, there is industry agreement that a risk reduction design clearance) • Automated material handling strategy should utilize a hierarchical approach. 2. Engineering control • Mechanical hard stops These indicate that the most effective solution begins with: 1 (safeguarding • Barriers 1. Elimination or substitution, technology) • Interlocks working through to • Presence sensing devices 2. Engineering controls, • Two-hand controls followed by 3. Administrative Awareness Means: 3. Awareness means, measures • Lights, beacons and strobes and then • Computer warnings 2 • Signs 4. Training and procedures, • Restricted space painted on floor followed by • Beepers 5. Personal protective equipment (the least effective solution). • Horns • Labels A comprehensive approach to risk reduction may include any Training and Procedures: or all of the risk reduction strategies identified in the following • Safety job procedures table. • Safety equipment inspections • Training Personal Protective Equipment: • Safety glasses • Ear plugs • Face shields • Gloves 2-2 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Safe design Risk reduction Safe design Step 2: Safe design (inherently safe design) 1 2 Mechanical design The first objective of every design shall Example: Avoiding shearing points be to prevent the occurrence of hazards in the first place. This objective can be Right achieved, for example, by: • Avoiding sharp edges, corners, and protruding parts • Avoiding crushing points, shearing points, and entanglement points • Limiting kinetic energy (mass and speed) Wrong • Considering ergonomic principles In this chapter ... Mechanical design ..............2-3 Operating and maintenance concept .......................2-4 Electrical equipment.............2-5 Enclosure ratings................2-8 Lock-out/Tag-out...............2-10 Stop functions.................2-11 Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC)........................2-12 Fluid technology ...............2-14 Use in potentially explosive atmospheres..................2-15 Summary.....................2-16 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 2-3 Subject to change without notice refrödueN :ecruoS Examples: Avoiding entanglement points The distance e should be ≤ 6 mm! The angle E should be ≤ 90°! refrödueN :ecruoS Safe design is the first and most impor- In all cases, all components shall be tant step in the risk reduction process. selected, used, and adapted in such a During this process, possible dangers way that in the event of a fault on the are excluded by design. For this reason machine, the safety of people is para- safe design is the most effective ap- mount. The prevention of damage to the proach. machine and the environment is also to Aspects of safe design relate to the ma- be taken into consideration. chine itself and the interaction between All elements of the machine design the person at risk and the machine. are to be specified so that they func- tion within specified limits. The design Examples: should also always be as simple as • Mechanical design possible. Safety-related functions are to • Operating and maintenance concept be separated from other functions as far • Electrical equipment (electrical safety, as possible. EMC) • Concepts for stopping in an emer- gency situation • Equipment involving fluids • Materials and resources used • Machine function and production process - Alfred Neudörfer: Konstruieren sicherheitsgerechter Produkte, Springer- Verlag, Berlin u. a., ISBN 978-3642191886 (4th Edition 2011) Safe design Risk reduction Operating and maintenance concept The need for exposure to the hazard should be kept as low as Color marking possible. This objective can be achieved, for example, by means Controls on pushbuttons as well as indicators or information of: displayed on monitors are to be marked in color. The various • Automatic loading and unloading stations colors have different meanings. • Setup and maintenance work from outside the hazardous area(s) • Use of reliable, available components to prevent mainte- 1 nance work • Clear and unambiguous operating concept, e.g., clear mark- ing of controls - Color coding convention for industrial machinery: NFPA 79, IEC 60204-1 2 Table 1: Preferred Colors for Indicator Lights and Icons Table 2: Alternate Colors for Indicator Lights and Icons Purpose Condition of Machine/Process Color (preferred purpose, unless otherwise agreed) Color Safety of People or State of Equipment Environment Status Action by Operator Status Status Immediate action to deal with Emergency hazardous condition (hazardous (for example switching off the Red Red Danger Faulty condition) machine supply, being alert to the hazardous condition and staying clear of the machine) Abnormal (abnormal or Monitoring and/or intervention Yellow impending (for example by re-establishing Yellow Warning / Caution Abnormal Amber critical the intended function) Amber condition) Green Normal Optional Green Safe Normal Mandatory Blue Mandatory Action Blue Mandatory Action Mandatory Action Action Neutral (no specific meaning assigned Clear – may be used Clear Neutral Neutral White whenever White Monitoring (no specific meaning (no specific meaning Gray doubt exists Gray assigned) assigned) Black about the Black application of RED, YELLOW, GREEN, or BLUE) Electrical equipment Measures are necessary to exclude electrical hazards on ma- • Dangers arising from electrical power, i.e., hazards due to chines. There are two different types of hazard: direct or