The contactors K1 contacts, it is possible to design control systems with any level and K2 are energized by the normally open contacts on K3 and of complexity. Redundancy and monitoring by positively guided latch. K3 is de-energized by releasing S1. Only then are the contacts are features of this safety principle. Wiring provides output circuits closed. On detection of an object in the active the logical operators. protective field, the K1 and K2 contactors are de-energized by Function: If the contactors K1 and K2 are de-energized, press- the OSSD1 and OSSD2 outputs. ing S1 energizes the K3 contactor and it remains energized. If no object is detected in the active protective field, the outputs Logic unit using safety relay/safety interface module (SIM) +24V +24V +24V OSSD1 Main circuit OSSD2 Control 0V 0V system FE FE Q0 Control circuit Reset S1 Q1M Q1M Q2M Q2M M 3~ 0V Safety relays combine one or more safety functions in one In safety relays, semiconductor elements can perform the task housing. They generally have automatic monitoring functions. of the electromechanical switching elements instead of relays. They can also have signaling contacts. Using measures to detect faults (such as the sampling of dy- The implementation of more complex safety applications is sim- namic signals) or measures to control faults (such as multiple plified. The certified safety relay also reduces the effort involved channel signal processing), purely electronic control systems in validating the safety functions. can achieve the necessary degree of reliability. 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 3-67 Subject to change without notice Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Risk reduction Logic unit with software-based components Reliable data transmission Similar to automation technology, safety technology has devel- Bus systems are used to transmit signals between the control oped from hard-wired auxiliary contactors through safety relays system and sensors or actuators on the machine. Bus systems § (some with configurable safety logic for which parameters can are also responsible for the transmission of states between be set) to complex certified safety PLCs. The concept of “proven different parts of control systems. A bus system makes wiring components” and “proven safety principles” are now available easier and as a result reduces the possible errors. It is reason- using electrical and programmable electronic systems. able to use bus systems already used in the market for safety- The logical operators for the safety function are implemented in related applications. the software. Software is to be differentiated from firmware — A detailed study of different faults and errors in hardware and 1 developed and certified by the manufacturer of the control de- software has shown that such faults mostly result in the same vice — and the actual safety application, which is developed by few transmission faults on bus systems. the integrator using the language(s) supported by the firmware. Parameterization Repetition Parameterization is the selection of properties from a defined Sender Receiver 2 pool of functionality by selector switch/software parameters at the time of commissioning. Loss Features: low logic depth, for unmodified, Guidelines issued by professional associations the creation of safety harmonized, if Regulations standards to published in the Rules Information CEN/CENELEC OJEU The application of harmonized standards Purchase order Machine operator suggests conformity with the acc. to applicable (assumption of Directives guidelines responsibility) Safe machine Declaration of conformity Safe machine running CE mark - The directives are freely available, e.g., at http://eur-lex.europa.eu/ European directives and standards apply to manufacturers and organizations that place machinery on the market in the European Union. §§--44 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Laws, regulations, directives, standards European directives Laws, regulations, directives, standards European directives Machinery Directive Machinery Directive 2006/42/EC addresses the manufactur­ • In 1989, the Council of the European Community passed the ers and distributors of machines and safety components. It directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member § establishes the necessary tasks for new machines to meet States relating to machinery, known as the Machinery Direc- health and safety requirements in order to dismantle trade bar­ tive (89/392/EEC). riers within Europe and to guarantee a high level of health and • By 1995, this directive had to be applied in all EC Member safety for users and operators. States. It applies to machines and to safety components individually • In 1998, various amendments were summarized and con­ placed on the markets, as well as to used machines and safety solidated in the Machinery Directive 98/37/EC. components from third­party countries which are placed on the • In 2006, a "new Machinery Directive" (2006/42/EC) was market in the European Economic Area for the first time passed which replaces the previous version. All EC Member (e.g., from the North America or Asia). States were obliged to implement the new directive by 29 December 2009. As AND/OR logic Sender Receiver Configuration Configuration is the application of flexible operators for defined 3 Insertion function blocks in certified logic with a programming interface, Sender Receiver for example through parameterization of times or configuration c of the inputs/outputs of the control system. Features: any logic depth, binary logic Incorrect sequence Sender Receiver EDM Feedback Main Valve 1 RESET Corruption Main Valve 2 Sender Receiver Light curtain frontside RESET E-stop pushbutton Reset req. Indication Delay Sender Receiver Programming Source: Safety in Construction and Design of Printing and Paper Converting Machines – Programming defines the logic as required using the functional- Electrical Equipment and Controllers, BG Druck- und Papierverarbeitung (today BG ETEM); Edition 06/2004; page 79 ity defined by the predefined programming language, mostly using certified function blocks. Features: any logic depth, word level Several measures can be applied in the higher-level control system against the transmission faults mentioned above, e.g., sequential numbering of safety-related messages or defined times for incoming messages with acknowledgment. Protocol extensions based on the fieldbus used include such measures. In the ISO/OSI (Open Systems Interconnection) layer model, they act over the transport layer and, therefore, use the fieldbus with all its components as a “black channel,”