customized in line with existing levels of knowledge within your organization. Become a certified functional safety expert or technician. SICK in conjunction with SGS-TÜV Saar offers a special multi-day training course on functional safety. After passing the examinations at the end, you are permit‐ ted to use the title “Certified Functional Safety Application Expert (CFSAE)” or “Certified Functional Safety Application Technician (CFSAT)”, for example on your business card. NOTE For the very latest detailed information, visit us on the Internet at www.sick.com/training or take a look at our seminar program. For training in your country, please contact your SICK representative or visit us at www.sick.com. SICK – At your side throughout your system's product life cycle With certified safety products, systems and services customized to meet your needs, SICK is able to support you throughout the life cycle of your machine, from planning, commissioning right through to maintenance and upgrades. 164 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice ANNEX Components and systems Using certified products and systems makes it easier for machine manufacturers to prove conformity with the requirements of the Machinery Directive and various standards. SICK offers machine manufacturers a wide range of products from simple single-beam safety light-beam sensors, safety light curtains, safety laser scanners, safety camera sensors, and safety switches right through to modular and network-capable safety controllers and software solutions for the conformity of machinery. Solutions for human-material differentiation in automatic loading and unloading points or for robot cell protection are examples of certified safety systems that significantly minimize the development effort for machine manufacturers. Consultancy: Our knowledge to the advantage of your applications SICK is a global company with subsidiaries or agencies in approx. 100 industrial countries worldwide where you can receive the specialist consultancy and advisory services you need from our competent employees. They will support you not only by providing technical knowledge about our products but also with their knowledge of the market as well as national legislation and standards. NOTE - Overview of safety technology products, page 126 - All products are listed in our online product finder at www.sick.com - To find out more about the services available in your country, contact your national SICK representative or visit us at SICK LifeTime Services 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 165 Subject to change without notice ANNEX An overview of the relevant standards Table 60: Relevant type A, B and C safety standards as referenced in this guideline Type International European stand‐ Title/Reference standard ISO/IEC ard EN A ISO 12100 EN ISO 12100 Safety of machinery – General principles for design – Risk assessment and risk reduction B ISO 4413 EN ISO 4413 Hydraulic fluid power - General rules and safety requirements for systems and their components ISO 4414 EN ISO 4414 Pneumatic fluid power - General rules and safety requirements for systems and their components ISO 11161 EN ISO 11161 Safety of machinery - Integrated manufacturing systems - Basic requirements ISO 13849-1 EN ISO 13849-1 Safety-related parts of control systems Part 1: General principles for design ISO 13849-2 EN ISO 13849-2 Part 2: Validation ISO 13850 EN ISO 13850 Emergency stop - Principles for design ISO 13851 EN ISO 13851 Two-hand control devices - Functional aspects and design principles ISO 13854 EN ISO 13854 Minimum distance to avoid crushing of parts of the human body ISO 13855 EN ISO 13855 Positioning of protective devices with respect to the approach speeds of parts of the human body ISO 13856-1 EN ISO 13856 Pressure-sensitive protective devices – General principles for design and testing of pressure-sensitive mats and pressure-sensitive floors ISO 13856-2 EN ISO 13856-2 Pressure-sensitive protective devices – General principles for design and testing of pressure-sensitive edges and pressure-sensitive bars ISO 13856-3 EN ISO 13856-3 Pressure-sensitive protective devices – General principles for design and testing of pressure-sensitive bumpers, plates, wires and similar devices ISO 13857 EN ISO 13857 Safety distances to prevent hazard zones being reached by upper and lower limbs ISO 14118 EN ISO 14118 Prevention of unexpected startup ISO 14119 EN ISO 14119 Interlocking devices associated with physical guards - Principles for design and selection ISO 14120 EN ISO legal requirements of the respective member states. To provide harmonized health and safety in the European Community and to remove trade barriers, the European standards are adopted by the national standardization organizations. The following principles apply to the relationship between national and safety standards: • If similar national standards exist for adopted European standards, the national standards shall be with‐ drawn. • If no applicable European standards exist for specific aspects or machinery, existing national standards can be applied. • A national standardization organization is only allowed to draft a new national standard if this intention has been announced and there is no interest at European level (at CEN or CENELEC). European standards for machinery safety Standards that describe the requirements of European directives in concrete detail in such a way that compliance with the standards provides presumption of conformity with the directives are referred to as “harmonized stand‐ ards”. The status of the standard is indicated by various abbreviations: • A standard with the prefix “EN” is recognized and can be applied in all EU states. • A standard with the prefix “prEN” is currently in preparation. • A document that also has “TS” as a prefix is a technical specification and is used as a preliminary standard. These documents exist as CLC/TS or as CEN/TS. • A document that also has “TR” as a prefix is a report on the state of the art. A harmonized European standard is prepared as follows: 1. The EU Commission, as the executive organ of the EU, issues a mandate to CEN or CENELEC to draft a European standard to specify in detail the requirements of a directive. 2. The preparatory work is undertaken in international technical committees in which the technical specifica‐ tions to meet the essential safety requirements in the