validation process involves a number of procedures being ap- (such as ISO 13849-2), in particular the requirements for the plied which complement each other. These include: level of safety defined. • Technical inspection of the positioning and effectiveness of Insofar as is reasonable, validation should be carried out by protective devices people who were not involved in the design of the safety-related • Practical inspection of response to failure with regard to the 1 parts of the control systems. In some provinces of Canada, this expected results using simulations is part of the Pre Start and Health and Safety Review (PSR), • Validation of environmental requirements by means of and in Brazil, this is part of the Technical Responsibility Annota- functional tests: tion of the Regional Council of Engineering and Architecture • Sufficient protection against influencing factors from the (ART/CREA). environment (temperature, moisture, shock, vibration In the validation process, it is important to check faults and in behavior, etc.) particular omissions in the formulated specification. • Sufficient resistance to interference from electromagnetic sources The critical part of how a safety-related control function has been designed is usually the specification. For example, access to a manufacturing cell is to be safe- 3 guarded by a light curtain. The safety function is thus specified as follows: e "If the protective field of a light curtain is interrupted, all hazard- ous machine functions shall cease as quickly as possible." 3-96 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Administrative measures / Information for use on residual risks Risk reduction Administrative measures / Information for use on residual risks Step 4: Administrative measures / Information for use on residual risks If the application of safe design mea- Administrative measures may supple- sures and technical protective measures ment safe design and engineering does not provide the required risk reduc- controls; however, these administrative tion, the user shall receive additional measures must not be used in place of warning with regard to prevailing residual them. risks and informed of the necessity to Within these administrative measures, take further protective measures (in standards indicate the use of the follow- particular to use personal protective ing hierarchy: equipment). • Awareness means (e.g., signs, lights, Administrative measures are accept- horns, beepers, restricted space able only when guards or safeguarding painted on floor) devices (that prevent people from being • Training and procedures (e.g., safe exposed to machine hazards) cannot be work procedures, Lockout / Tagout installed due to reasons of infeasibility. procedures, training of personnel) • Personal protective equipment (PPE) (e.g., safety glasses, gloves, ear plugs) - Hierarchical approach for risk reduction: ANSI B11.0, ANSI/ASSE Z244.1, 3 ANSI/PMMI B155.1-2011, RIA TR R15.406, CSA Z432 c Information for use shall not be a replacement for other measures! 4 Acoustic and optical warning devices When machine hazards may be initiated independent of human action, warnings must be provided on the machine provid- ing information about hazards. Warning devices must be clearly and readily un- derstandable. It shall be possible for the operating personnel to check that they are constantly ready for operation. Both the supplier(s) and employer have a duty to inform of residual risks that remain. 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 4-1 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Administrative measures / Information for use on residual risks Administrative measures / Information for use on residual risks Risk reduction Information and warnings on the machine Information and warnings on the machine should take the form of symbols or pictograms whenever possible. They shall be § drawn up in the official language of the country in which the machine is being put to market. Additional warnings in other official languages are acceptable. Information that is relevant to safety must be formulated in a way that is clear, easy to understand, succinct, and precise. Interactive means of com- munication must be easy to understand and support intuitive 1 operation. 2 - Safety alerting standards: OSHA 1910.145, ANSI Z535 series, NR 26, ISO 3864 series, ISO 7010 Warnings and safety notes in the instruction handbook • Safety notes on transport, handling, and storage The instruction handbook shall include all safety-relevant infor- • Instructions on the procedures to be followed in the event of mation for the machine, in particular: accidents or incidents and for safe troubleshooting • Instructions on safe setup and maintenance and the re- • Warnings relating to possible misuse of the machine that quired protective measures associated with these experience has shown might occur • Specification of the spare parts to be used which may affect • Notes about commissioning and operation of the machine the health and safety of operating personnel as well as about required training and/or briefing of operat- 4 ing personnel • Information about residual risks which remain in spite of measures taken to integrate safety in the design and use of protective devices and supplementary protective measures • Instructions for protective measures to be taken by the user and personal protective equipment requirements • Conditions under which requirements with regard to stability are met in the various life cycle phases of the machine 4-2 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Summary Risk reduction Summary Summary of Steps 2, 3, and 4: Risk reduction General Technical protective measures To reduce the risk(s) posed by the hazard analyzed, proceed • Either of the ANSI B11.26, ISO 13849-1 (PL) or IEC 62061 in accordance with the 3-step method: (SIL) standards can provide assistance with regard to 1. Design the machine so that the risks are eliminated as far functional safety. as possible. • Define the safety functions and determine the necessary safety level for each. 2. Define, apply, and check the required protective measures. • Draft the safety concept. Select the most effective protec- 3. Define and provide information about residual risks and tive devices and how they will be assembled and integrat- information about administrative measures. ed into the control system.