trapping of a finger. Safety functions shall be specified individually for each phase of the machine’s life cycle and hazard, since one and the same machine can have different hazardous points with different risks during different phases of the lifecycle. The risk assessment is based on the following parameters: • The severity of the possible injury/damage to health • Frequency and/or duration of exposure • The possibility of preventing the hazard By combining these parameters, the required safety level can be determined. Some standards contain suitable methods for this determination. The risk assessment always starts without considering risk reduction measures. Required performance level (PLr) according to ISO 13849-1 This standard uses a risk graph to determine the required risk reduction level. The parameters S, F and P are used to determine the magnitude of the risk. The result of the procedure is a “required performance level” (PLr). 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 51 Subject to change without notice Severity of injury Frequency and/or Possibility of avoiding the PLr – required S1: Mild duration of exposure to hazard or limiting the performance level S2: Serious hazard damage F1: Seldom/short P1: Possible F2: Frequent/long P2: Hardly possible Start ksir woL ksir hgiH 3B – DETERMINING THE REQUIRED SAFETY LEVEL Figure 33: Risk graph according to ISO 13849-1 The performance level is defined in five discrete steps. The performance level depends on the structure of the control system, the reliability of the components used, the ability to detect faults as well as the resistance to common cause faults in multi-channel controllers (see section "Safety-related aspects of subsystems", page 56). In addition, further measures to avoid design faults are required. If the probability of occurrence of a hazardous event can be assessed as low, the PLr may be reduced by one level. This method is described in Annex A of the standard. This annex is informative and not normative. It is not necessary, therefore, to apply the process described there in order to fully comply with the requirements of the standard. The SCRAM method from SICK can also be used as an alternative. The advantage is the universal applicability and the finer granularity of the decision parameters see "Scalable Risk Analysis and Evaluation Method (SCRAM)", page 24. Required safety integrity level (SIL) according to IEC 62061 The procedure used here is a numerical procedure. The severity, the frequency and duration of exposurein the hazardous area, and the probability of avoiding or limiting harm are evaluated. In addition, the probability of occurrence of the hazardous event is taken into consideration. The result is the required safety integrity level (SIL). Table 16: Required safety integrity level depending on the impact of the hazard according to IEC 62061 Effects Severity Class Cl = Fr + Pr + Av Se 4 5-7 8-10 11-13 14-15 Death, losing an eye or arm 4 SIL 2 SIL 2 SIL 2 SIL 3 SIL 3 Permanent, losing finger(s) 3 SIL 1 SIL 2 SIL 3 Reversible, medical attention 2 SIL 1 SIL 2 Reversible, first aid 1 SIL 1 52 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3B – DETERMINING THE REQUIRED SAFETY LEVEL Table 17: Influencing variables for SIL determination according to IEC 62061 Frequency1) Probability of occurrence Probability of avoidance of exposure of the hazardous event of the hazardous event Fr Pr Pv Fr ≥ 1 × per hour 5 Very high 5 1 × per hour > Fr ≥ 1 × per day 5 Likely 4 1 × per day > Fr ≥ 1 × in 2 weeks 4 Possible 3 Impossible 5 1 × in 2 weeks > Fr ≥ 1 × per year 3 Rarely 2 Rarely 3 1 × per year > Fr 2 Negligible 1 Probable 1 1) Applies for durations > 10 minutes The SIL is determined as follows: • Determine the severity Se. • Determine values for the Frequency Fr, Probability Pr, and Avoidance Pv. • Calculate the Class Cl from the sum of Fr + Pr + Pv. • The required SIL is the intersection between the row “Severity Se” and the column “Class Cl” The SIL is defined in three discrete steps. The SIL implemented depends on the structure of the control system, the reliability of the components used, the ability to detect faults as well as the resistance to multiple common cause faults in multiple channel control systems. In addition, further measures to avoid design faults are required (see "Safety-related aspects of subsystems", page 56). Summary: Determining the required level of safety General • Define the necessary level of safety for each safety function. • The parameters “severity”, “probability of occurrence” and “probability of avoiding damage” determine the required safety level. Applicable standards • ISO 13849-1 uses a risk graph to determine the required safety level. The result of the procedure is a “required performance level” (PLr). • ISO 13849-1 is also applicable to hydraulic, pneumatic, and mechanical systems. • IEC 62061 uses a numerical method to determine the required safety level. The result is a required safety integrity level (SIL). 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 53 Subject to change without notice 3c – Designing the safety function Steps 3c and 3d describe the design and verification of the safety functions. These steps may need to be performed several times in an iterative process. Step 3c includes the development of the safety concept, the selection of the protective devices, the integration into the controller, and the verification of the safety function. NOTE During this process it is necessary to repeatedly check whether the selection of the technology offers sufficient safety and is also technically feasible, or whether other risks or additional risks are produced by the use of a specific technology. Safety concept Develop a concept for the required safety functions. A machine or system consists of several components that interact and ensure the functionality of a machine or system. A