and electrical integration of locking devices The same rules generally apply to locking devices as to inter- locking devices. In relation to the principle of positive opening, attention is to be paid to which contacts should be positively opened. Guard signaling contacts indicate when the actuator has been withdrawn, signifying the guard is open. These con- tacts may be positive opening, but this is not always required. Risk reduction Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Required holding force for guards according to Annex I of ISO 14119:2013 Direction of force Position Application of force Force (N) - Requirements for safety switches/interlocking devices: ISO 14119, ANSI B11.19, RIA TR R15.406, CSA Z432, NR-12 Horizontal pulling - Principle of positive opening: IEC 60 947-5-1 Sitting Single handed 600 (dragging) - Additional requirements for horizontal injection molding machines for the plastics industry: ANSI/SPI B151.1 Standing, torso and legs Bi-manual, Vertical upward 1400 bent, feet parallel horizontal grips Single-handed, Vertical upward Standing free 1200 horizontal grips 3 c Horizontal, parallel to Standing upright, feet body symmetry plane, parallel or in step Bi-manual, vertical grips 1100 backward, pull posture Horizontal, parallel to Standing, feet parallel body symmetry plane Bi-manual, vertical grips 1300 or in step posture forward, push Horizontal, normal to Standing, torso bent Shoulder pushing on body symmetry plane 1300 sideward metal plate on the side body off Horizontal, normal to Single-handed, Standing, feet parallel 700 body symmetry plane vertical grips 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 3-25 Subject to change without notice Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Risk reduction Trapped key systems Guards have the disadvantage that after entering the hazard When the key is removed (Figure 1), the dangerous state is zone and the subsequent closing of the protective device, stopped. In the safe state (e.g., at standstill) the door can be § restarting cannot be effectively prevented. Additional measures opened (Figure 2). A key inserted in the interior can enable are necessary, such as a reset device or the insertion of a set-up operating modes (Figure 3). Automatic operation is U-lock in a Type 2 interlocking device actuator (referred to as disabled in this situation, even if the door is closed. an “interlock blocking device” in ANSI B11.19). These organiza- Note: These measures are not a substitute for Lock-Out/Tag- tional measures are dependent, however, on the willingness or Out procedures because the interlocking device is typically not awareness of the user. used as an energy isolation device. 1 One possible way to prevent an unintentional start is trapped key systems in combination with interlocking devices. A key inserted outside the hazardous area enables automatic opera- tion and keeps the door locked. Example: Trapped key system 2 3 c 1 2 3 3-26 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Electro-sensitive protective equipment (ESPE) With electro-sensitive protective equipment (ESPE), in contrast ESPE technologies to "guards," protection is not based on the physical separation Electro-sensitive protective equipment can implement detec- of persons at risk from the hazard itself. Protection is achieved tion of persons through various principles: optical, capacitive, through temporal separation. As long as there is somebody in ultrasound, microwaves and passive infrared detection. a defined area, no dangerous machine functions are initiated, In practice, optical protective devices have been proven effec- and such functions are stopped if already underway. A certain tive over many years and in large numbers. amount of time, referred to as the "stopping/run-down time," is required to stop these functions. Optoelectronic protective devices The ESPE must detect the approach of a person to the hazard The most common electro-sensitive protective devices are zone in a timely manner and depending on the application, the optoelectronic devices such as: presence of the person in the hazard zone. • Safety light curtains and photoelectric switches (AOPD: ac- The standards IEC 61496-1, UL 61496-1, ANSI B11.19, RIA TR tive optoelectronic protective device) R15.406, and CSA Z432 define safety-related requirements for • Safety laser scanners (AOPDDR: active optoelectronic pro- ESPE independent of their technology or principle of operation. tective device responsive to diffuse reflection) • Camera-based protective devices (VBPD: vision based pro- What are the benefits of electro-sensitive protective equip- tective devices) ment? If an operator frequently or regularly has to access a machine and is therefore exposed to a hazard, the use of an ESPE instead of (mechanical) guards (covers, safety fencing, etc.) is 3 advantageous thanks to: c • Reduced access time (operator does not have to wait for the guard to open) • Increased productivity (time savings when loading the machine) • Improved workplace ergonomics (operator does not have to operate a guard) In addition, operators and others alike are protected. Against what hazards does electro-sensitive protective equipment not protect? Since an electro-sensitive protective equipment does not rep- resent a physical barrier, it is not able to protect people against emissions such as ejected machine parts, workpieces or chips; Examples of optoelectronic protective devices ionizing radiation; heat (thermal radiation); noise; sprayed coolant and lubricant; etc. Similarly, ESPE cannot be used on An optoelectronic protective device can be used if the op- machines on which long stopping/run-down times require mini- erator is not exposed to any danger of injury due to ejected mum distances that cannot be achieved. parts (e.g., splashes of molten material). In such cases, guards must be used. 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 3-27 Subject to change without notice Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Risk reduction Safety light curtains and photoelectric switches (AOPDs) AOPDs with a smaller detection capability (40 mm or less ac- AOPDs are protective devices that use optoelectronic transmis- cording to international standards, and 64 mm or less for North sion and reception elements to detect persons in a defined American standards) are called safety light curtains and are § two-dimensional area. A series of parallel light beams (normally used to safeguard hazardous points directly (see figure). infrared) transmitted from the sender to the receiver form a protective field that safeguards the hazard zone.