distinction must be made here between components that perform pure operating tasks and ones that are responsible for safety-related functions. NOTE - For details on this: IFA Report 2/2017, “Functional Safety of Machine Controls” at www.dguv.de/ifa/publikatio‐ nen Functional structure of a machine controller Operating and monitoring elements (e.g. operator interface) deef ygrenE Sensors Sensors for operating functions for safety functions (e.g., temperature sensor) (e.g., safety light curtain) Logic unit Logic unit for operating functions for safety functions (e.g., standard PLC) (e.g., safety relay) Power control elements Power control elements (e.g., contactor) (e.g., servo converter with safety function) Drive/actuator elements Drive/actuator elements presenting no hazard presenting possible hazard (e.g., heater) (e.g., servo motor) TENIBAC LORTNOC 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Figure 34: Functional structure of a machine controller 54 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION The safety-related parts of control systems shall be selected to suit the safety functions and the necessary level of safety. These parts include sensors, logic units, power control elements, for example, as well as drive and work elements. This selection is usually made while developing the safety concept. A safety function can be implemented using one or more safety-related component(s). Several safety functions can share one or more components. Control systems shall be designed to avoid hazardous situations. It must be possible to start machinery only by voluntary actuation of a control device provided for the purpose. If a machine restart will pose a hazard, then restarting on switching on the supply voltage shall be excluded by technical means. If a machine restart will not pose a hazard, then restarting without operator intervention (automatic restart) is permitted. Subsystems of the safety-related part of a machine control system Event Signal Signal Signal Motion Power control Sensor Logic unit Drive element element The drive elements shall be designed according to “good engineering practice”. They are only part of the safety function if their failure may lead to a hazard (e.g., suspended axes). Subsystems of the safety-related part of a machine control system Figure 35: Subsystems of a machine controller Decisive factors The following features shall be considered when developing the safety concept: • Features of the machine • Features of the surroundings • Human aspects • Features of the design • Features of protective devices (see "Technology, selection and use of protective devices", page 60) Which protective devices are to be integrated and how they are to be integrated must be defined based on the above features. Features of the machine The following features of the machine shall be considered: • Ability to stop the dangerous movement at any time (if not possible, use guards or impeding devices) • Ability to stop the dangerous movement without additional hazards (if not possible, select different design/ protective device) • Possibility of hazard due to ejected parts (if yes: use physical guards) • Stopping times (knowledge of stopping times is necessary to ensure the protective device is effective) • Possibility of monitoring stopping time/overrun (this is necessary if changes could occur due to aging/wear) Features of the surroundings The following features of the surroundings shall be considered: • Electromagnetic disturbances, radiated interference • Vibration, shock • Ambient light, light interfering with sensors/welding sparks • Reflective surfaces • Contamination (mist, chips) 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 55 Subject to change without notice • Temperature range • Moisture, weather Human aspects The following human aspects shall be considered: • Expected qualification of the machine’s operator • Expected number of persons in the area • Approach speed (K) • Possibility of defeating the protective devices • Reasonably foreseeable misuse Features of the design A safety function is performed by several subsystems. It is always advisable to implement safety functions with certified safety components. Certified safety components will simplify the design process and subsequent verification. It is often not possible to implement a subsystem using only certified safety components that readily provide the level of safety (PL/SIL). In fact, the subsystem frequently has to be assembled from a number of discrete elements. In this case, the safety level depends on various safety-related aspects, see "Safety-related aspects of subsystems", page 56. Safety-related aspects of subsystems The safety level of a subsystem is dependent on various safety-related aspects, for example: • Structure • Reliability of the components/devices • Diagnostics for detecting faults • Resistance to common cause failures • Process erutcurtS ytilibaileR scitsongaiD ecnatsiseR ssecorP 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Safety level Figure 36: Aspects for determining the safety level of a subsystem Structure To reduce the susceptibility of a safety component to fault by means of a better structure, the safety-related functions can be executed in parallel on more than one channel. Dual-channel safety-related systems are common in the machine safety sector (see figure below). Each channel can perform the intended safety function. The two channels can be of diverse design (e.g., one channel uses electromechanical components, the other only electronics). Instead of a second equivalent channel, the second channel can also have a pure monitoring function. 56 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice Table 18: Structure of single-channel and dual-channel safety-related systems Single-channel safety-related systems Dual-channel safety-related systems I Input L Output O I1 Input L1 Monitoring O1 signal signal signal Output signal I2 Input L2 Monitoring O2 signal Output signal ssorC nosirapmoc 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION The structure is described in the standard ISO 13849-11) according to the categories described below. Table 19: Categories according to ISO 13849-1 with description Category B/Category 1 Category B / 1 Normal operation Operation with fault No fault detection. The occurrence of a fault will result in a risk. Clear The risk can be minimized with reli‐ Protective field Occupied able and proven components (Cate‐ gory 1). Time Risk Signal output On Off Category 2 Category 2 Normal operation Operation with fault Faults are detected