inverters sub-function, as they pose a risk of unintentional movement, To implement the safety function, various switch-OFF paths are for example. possible in the actuator subsystem: The safety function stretches from the sensor to the actuator (see figure). Safety function Drive controller Motor Sensor Logic Actuator The actuator can involve several components (contactor, drive  1 Mains contactor — poor due to long re-energization time, controller, feedback), depending on technical design and safety high wear due to the current on the switch function. Braking systems and holding systems are also to be  2 Controller enable — not safety-related taken into account on axes subject to gravity.  3 Pulse inhibit “safe restart interlock (stop)” The actual motor is not part of the assessment. 4 Setpoint — not safety-related Servo amplifiers and frequency inverters  5 Motor contactor — not allowed on all inverters In drive technology, three-phase motors with frequency invert-  6 Retaining brake — normally not a functional brake ers have largely replaced DC drives. The inverter generates an 3 output voltage of variable frequency and amplitude from the A safety function can be implemented with a drive controller in c fixed three-phase mains. Depending on design, regulated recti- various ways: fiers can feed the energy absorbed by the intermediate circuit • By means of disconnection of the supply of power, e.g., us- during braking back to the mains. ing a mains contactor 1 or a motor contactor 5 The rectifier converts the electrical power supplied from the • By means of external circuits for monitoring, e.g., by moni- mains and feeds it to the DC intermediate circuit. To perform toring an encoder the required control function, the inverter forms a suitable • By means of element safety functions integrated directly in revolving field for the motor using pulse-width modulation and the drive controller (g 3-72) semiconductor switches. The usual switching frequencies are between 4 kHz and 12 kHz. Disconnection of the power supply When using inverters, the energy stored in the intermediate circuit's capacitors and the energy produced by a regenerative braking process must be taken into account in the risk assess- Motor ment. 3 (1) 3 During the consideration of the residual travel, it is to be as- Rectifier Intermediate link Inverter U, f ≠ const. sumed that the motion control system does not initiate a brake ramp. After shutdown, the drive continues running at more or To limit transient overvoltages caused by switching loads in DC less the same speed, depending on the friction (stop Catego- and AC circuits, interference suppression components are to be ry 0). The use of a brake ramp by changing the setpoint and/ used, in particular if sensitive electronic assemblies are being or controller enable and subsequent shutdown of the contactor used in the same control cabinet. or the pulse inhibit (stop Category 1) can reduce the braking distance. Checklist t • Mains filter fitted to the frequency inverter? Emergency stop • Sinusoidal filter fitted to the output circuit on the inverter? Speed • Connection cables as short as possible and screened? • Components and screens connected to earth/equipment earthing K1, K2 conductor using large area connections? • Commutation choke connected in series for peak current limiting? 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 3-71 Subject to change without notice Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Risk reduction Speed detection with external monitoring units The shutdown reaction varies depending on the element safety To monitor the drive, external monitoring units require signals function chosen. For example, on a stop request, safe torque that provide information about the latest movement param- off (STO) results in uncontrolled coasting down of the move- § eters. In this case, the signal sources are sensors and encod- ment. During a safe stop (SS1 or SS2), drive-controlled motion ers. These must either be designed as safe sensors or with ramp down is initiated. A combination of drive-supported safety redundancy, depending on the PL or SIL. functions may also need to be implemented as a suitable measure to achieve adequate risk reduction. Alternatively, standstill monitoring can also be implemented by reading back the voltage induced by the motor coasting down. Possible interfaces for the implementation of safety sub-func- This technique also functions with speed-controlled drives. tions integrated directly in the drive are: 1 • Discrete 24-V signals Element safety functions integrated in the drive controller • Control communication (channel 1)/24 V discrete (chan- Safety functions are implemented by safety-related parts of nel 2) control systems (SRP/CS). They include the sub-functions of • Safe communication systems (fieldbus systems/network measuring (sensor), processing (logic unit), and switching or interface) changing (actuator). In this context, safety-related functions “Control communication” refers to a standard control system 2 integrated in the drive controller are to be considered element sending a setpoint for rotational speed or position to the drive safety functions. via a fieldbus or network that is not of safe design. They are generally divided into two groups: The majority of element safety functions for variable speed • Safe stopping and braking functions: These functions are drives available today are specified in the harmonized stan- used to stop the drive safely (e.g., safe stop) dard IEC 61800-5-2 “Adjustable speed electrical power drive 3 • Safe movement functions: These functions are used for the systems,” Part 5-2 “Safety requirements. Functional.” Drive safe monitoring of the drive during operation (e.g., safely controllers that meet this standard can be used as safety-relat- c reduced speed). ed parts of a control system in accordance with ISO 13849-1 or In general, the drive monitoring functions needed depend on IEC 62061. the application. Secondary conditions include parameters such as the necessary braking distance, the presence of kinetic energy, etc. 3-72 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Safety functions of servo drives according to IEC 61800-5-2 Safe Torque Off (STO) Safe Maximum Speed (SMS) 1) • Corresponds to stop Category 0 in accor- • Safe monitoring of the