transponder STR1 Optical Coded optical actuator – 1 These sensors are not designed for safety applications. If they are used in interlocking devices, the designer must give very careful consideration to systematic and common cause failures and take additional measures accordingly. NOTE Type 3 interlocking devices should only be used if the risk assessment shows that manipulation is not foreseeable or additional measures have been applied to prevent it. 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 63 Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Safety switches, position switches and interlocking devices The commonly used term “safety switch” does not appear in the standards because the multitude of technologies and suitable sensor designs for interlocking devices does not allow general requirements to be defined. Regardless of the technology used (mechanical, electrical, pneumatic, hydraulic), the following definitions apply: • An interlocking device consists of an actuator and a position switch. • A position switch consists of an actuator and an output signal element. Depending on the technology of the position switch used and the functional safety requirements, either one or more interlocking devices will be required for a physical guard. Mechanical attachment Reliable mechanical attachment of the position switches and actuators is crucial for their effectiveness. The elements of interlocking devices • shall be fitted such that they are protected against damage due to foreseeable external effects. • shall not be used as a mechanical stop. • shall be secured against unintentional operation and damage by means of their arrangement and design. • shall be secured against unintentional changes in position by their arrangement, design and fastening. secured. If necessary, the switch and the actuating element must be secured by means of positive locking, e.g., with round holes, dowel pins, stops. • shall be protected by their actuation method, or their integration in the control shall be such that they cannot be easily bypassed. • shall be possible to check the switches for correct operation and, if possible, they shall be easily accessible for inspection. Table 22: Example: Mechanical attachment of position switches Correct mounting: The position switch is Incorrect mounting: The position switch Correct mounting: The height of the cam protected by a mechanical stop. is used as a stop. has been matched to the position switch. Positive mechanical actuation or interlocking arrangement When using mechanical interlocking devices, reliable actuation is important. The use of positive mechanical actuation in an interlocking device ensures that the position switch is actuated when the guard is opened and reduces possibilities for manipulation. Positive mechanical actuation is the forced movement of the mechanical components of the interlocking device (safety switch) through direct contact with mechanical components or with the physical guard (e.g., protective door). 64 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Table 23: Example: Positive mechanical actuation Safe: Opening the protective door moves the mechanical Faulty design: The position switch may not always open the plunger of the position switch (positive mechanical actuation). safety circuit, e.g., if the plunger is sticking due to incrusta‐ This opens the safety circuit. tions or lubricating oil that has solidified. Source: BG Feinmechanik und Elektrotechnik, BGI 575 Positive opening A contact element is positive-opening if the switching contacts are isolated immediately by a defined movement of the actuating element by non-elastic parts (e.g., springs). The use of positive opening normally closed contacts in position switches with positive mechanical actuation ensures that electrical circuit is still isolated even if the contacts are worn or other electrical faults have occurred. The following requirements also apply where positive-opening mechanical position switches are concerned: • The actuating travel shall be set to suit the positive-opening travel. • The minimum plunger travel specified by the manufacturer shall be observed in order to provide the switching distance required for positive opening. Figure 42: Symbol for positive opening normally closed contacts in accordance with IEC 60947-5-1, Annex K NOTE The use of both redundantly monitored electronic outputs from electro-sensitive position switches is considered equivalent to positive opening. If a type 3 or type 4 interlocking device is the only interlocking device on a physical guard, it must meet the requirements of IEC 60947-5-3. Manipulation prevention When designing interlocking devices, designers shall consider the possible motivation for manipulation of the protective device and foreseeable manipulation into account. Measures to counter manipulation with simple means shall be applied. Simple means include screws, needles, sections of sheet steel, coins, bent wire or the like. Possible means of avoiding simple attempts to manipulate interlocking devices include: • Making interlocking devices difficult to access by using concealed assembly or assembly out of reach • Using position switches with coded actuators • Mounting the elements of the interlocking switches with “one-way” fasteners (e.g., safety screws, rivets) • Manipulation monitoring in the control system (plausibility checks, testing) 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 65 Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Redundant design The critical failure of an individual safety switch can be caused by manipulation, a mechanical error on the actuator or position switch (e.g., aging), or the effects of extreme ambient conditions (food industry example: stuck roller plunger due to contamination with flour). In particular at higher safety levels it is necessary to use an additional position switch, e.g., with the opposite function to that of the first position switch, and to have both switches monitored by the control system. Example: An injection molding machine with cyclically actuated front protective doors. This application requires two mechanical switches. Table 24: Example: Detection of mechanical faults by means of a diverse redundant arrangement Locking devices Locking devices are devices that prevent guards from opening. They shall be applied if the stopping time of the dangerous machine state is longer than the time a person needs to reach the hazardous area (safety function "Temporarily preventing access", page 44). Locking devices shall prevent access to