related to electrical safety, and functional earthing (FE), which is used for other purposes. The protective conductor system comprises earth electrodes, connecting cables, and the related terminals. For equipotential bonding, all conductive and accessible parts of the machine must be connected to the protective conductor system. Equipotential bonding is a basic means of protection in the event of a fault. Table 7: Protective conductor system for different earthing systems L1 L2 L3 N PE Fuse Wire marking Protective conductor connection Housing Equipotential bonding bar Mains disconnection device TN system The TN system is the most common form of network in low voltage systems. In the TN system, the star point of the transformer is directly connected to earth (system earthing). The chassis of the equipment connected are connected to the transformer’s star point via the protective conductor (PE). Depending on the wire cross-section laid, PE and N conductors are laid as a common conductor (TN-C system) or as two independent conductors (TN-S system). TT system In a TT system, the star point of the supply transformer is earthed in the same way as in a TN system. The protective conductor connected to the electrically conductive equipment housing is not connected to this star point, but is earthed separately. The chassis of the equipment can also be earthed using a common protective earth electrode. TT systems are usually only used in connection with residual current circuit breakers. The advantage of the TT system lies in its increased reliability for remote areas. IT system The conductive housings of the equipment in an IT system are earthed in the same way as in a TT system, but the star point of the feeding transformer is not. Systems in which a shutdown will result in a hazardous situation and which should therefore not be shut down yet in the event of a single short-circuit or earth fault are designed as IT systems. In the low-voltage area, IT systems are required, for example, to supply operating rooms and intensive care stations in hospitals. 32 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 2 SAFE DESIGN (INHERENTLY SAFE DESIGN) NOTE - Protective measures: Basic standard IEC 61140 and IEC 60364-4-41 with varying national amendments. Mains disconnection device According to IEC 60204-1, a mains disconnection device must be provided for every power supply connection to one or more machines. It must be able to isolate the electrical equipment from the power supply. The following disconnection devices can be used for this purpose: • Power circuit breaker for use category AC-23B or DC-23B • Isolating switch with auxiliary contact for leading load shedding • Circuit breaker • Plug/socket combination up to 16 A / 3 kW Certain circuits such as control circuits for interlocking functions do not need to be shut down by the isolation device. In this case special precautions must be taken to ensure the safety of operators. Power isolation to prevent unexpected start-up When working on the machine (maintenance, cleaning, servicing, etc.), a machine start or the restoration of power shall not result in a hazard for the persons involved. When mains disconnection devices are used, means shall be provided to prevent unintentional and/or mistaken switching of the power supply isolation device. This can be achieved, for example, by blocking the main switch in the “OFF” position with a padlock. NOTE This power isolation device is not suitable for use as a protective measure for brief interventions into the hazard‐ ous area for operational purposes. Protection against electric shock Protection classes The classification into different protection classes describes the means by which single-fault safety is achieved. This categorization does not provide an indication of the level of protection. Table 8: Symbols and explanations of protection classes Protection class I All devices with simple insulation (basic insulation) and a protective conduction connection are in protection class I. The protective conductor must be connected to a terminal marked with the earthing symbol or PE and be green-yellow. Protection class II Equipment in protection class II has increased insulation or double insulation and is not connected to the protec‐ tive conductor. This protective measure is also known as protective insulation. There shall be no connection of a protective conductor. Protection Class III Equipment in protection class III operates with a safety extra-low voltage and, therefore, does not require any explicit protection. Safety extra-low voltage SELV/PELV AC voltages up to 50 volts (V ) and DC voltages up to 120 volts are allowed as safety extra-low voltages. Above RMS 75 volts DC, the requirements of the Low Voltage Directive must also be observed. 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 33 Subject to change without notice 2 SAFE DESIGN (INHERENTLY SAFE DESIGN) In the case of applications in normally dry rooms, it is not necessary to provide protection against direct contact (basic protection) if the rms value of the AC voltage does not exceed 25 V or the harmonic-free DC voltage does not exceed 60 V. A harmonic-free state exists when the DC voltage is superimposed with a sinusoidal AC voltage component of no more than 10% effective. The safety extra-low voltage circuit shall be safely separated from other circuits (adequate air and creepage distances, insulation, connection of circuits to the protective conductor, etc.). Two safety extra-low voltages are distinguished: • SELV (safety extra-low voltage) • PELV (protective extra-low voltage) NOTE A safety extra-low voltage shall not be generated from the mains using autotransformers, voltage dividers, or series resistors. Table 9: Safety extra-low voltages SELV/PELV ELV (AC < 50 V rms, DC < 120 V) SELV PELV Type of isolation Power sources Power sources with safe isolation, e.g., a safety transformer or equiva‐ lent power sources Circuits • Circuits with safe isolation from other non-SELV or non-PELV circuits • Circuits with basic insulation between SELV and PELV circuits Reference to earth Circuits Unearthed circuits Earthed or unearthed circuits potential or to a protec‐ Housing Housings cannot be intentionally Housings