g www.beuth.de Publishers of standards, international CEN: g www.cen.eu/cenorm/homepage.htm Ontario: Information about Brazilian American Society of Pre Start Health and Safety standards: CENELEC: g www.cenelec.eu M (A e S c M h E a ) n : ical Engineers Reviews: ➜ www.abnt.org.br I I S EC O : : g g   w w w w w w . . i i s e o c . . o ch rg/iso/home.htm ➜ www.asme.org ➜ www.labour.gov.on.ca/ Publishers of standards, in German Germany (DIN): g www.din.de english/hs/pdf/gl_psr.pdf Austria (ON): g www.as-institute.at American Society of Safety Switzerland (SVN): g www.snv.ch Engineers (ASSE): Occupational Health and ➜ www.asse.org Safety Act: Publishers of standards, European Belgium (NBN): g www.nbn.be ➜ www.labour.gov.on.ca/ Bulgaria (BDS): g www.bds-bg.org english/hs/pubs/ohsa/ Denmark (DS): g www.ds.dk index.php Estonia (EVS): g www.evs.ee Finland (SFS): g www.sfs.fi Electrical Safety in Ontario, France (AFNOR): g www.afnor.org Electrical Safety Authority: Greece (ELOT): g www.elot.gr ➜ www.esasafe.com Great Britain (BSI): g www.bsigroup.com Ireland (NSAI): g www.nsai.ie Electrical approvals: Iceland (IST): g www.stadlar.is ➜ www.labour.gov.on.ca/ Italy (UNI): g www.uni.com/it english/hs/guidelines/ Latvia (LVS): g www.lvs.lv liveperformancegl_live_ Lithuania (LST): g www.lsd.lt apx_a.html Luxembourg (SEE): g www.see.lu ➜ www.labour.gov.on.ca Malta (MSA): g www.msa.org.mt ➜ www.iapa.ca Netherlands (NEN): g www2.nen.nl Order standards ➜ web.ansi.org ➜ www.abntcatalogo.com. Norway (SN): g www.standard.no ➜ www.global.ihs.com br/default.aspx Poland (PKN): g www.pkn.pl ➜ www.nssn.com Portugal (IPQ): g www.ipq.pt Romania (ASRO): g www.asro.ro Machine related Machine Tools (B11 Series): Sweden (SIS): g www.sis.se ➜ b11standards.org Slovenia (SIST): g www.sist.si Slovakia (SUTN): g www.sutn.sk Industrial Robotics: Spain (AENOR): g www.aenor.es ➜ www.robotics.org Czech Republic (CNI): g www.unmz.cz/urad/unmz Hungary (MSZT): g www.mszt.hu Packaging and Process Technologies: Cyprus (CYS): g www.cys.org.cy ➜ www.pmmi.org Up-to-the-minute information about Ger- The Federal Institute for Occupational Safety provides a list of certification bodies currently notified man Notified Bodies, other EU member by EU Overall validation of the machine g 5-1 Deployment of machinery g 6-1 6 • Technical documentation g 6-3 Annex • How SICK supports you g i-1 • Overview of relevant standards g i-6 • Useful links g i-12 • Glossary/Index g i-14 • Space for your own notes g i-18 Contents About this guide Contents About this guide Six steps to a safe machine Safe machinery provides legal protection for both manufacturer and user. Machine users expect to be offered only safe machinery or devices. This expectation exists worldwide. There are also regulations on the protection of operators of machinery worldwide. These regulations are subject to regional variations. However, there is broad agreement on the process to be applied during the manufacture and upgrade of machinery. • During the design and manufacture of machinery, the machine manufacturer shall identify and evaluate all possible hazards and hazardous points by under- taking a risk assessment (formerly also called a hazard analysis). • Based on this risk assessment, the supplier and user should take suitable design measures to eliminate or reduce the risk. If the risk cannot be eliminated by these design measures or the remaining risk cannot be tolerated, the supplier and user shall define, select, and apply suitable engineering controls. If the remain- ing risk is not acceptable, administrative controls such as organizational proce- dures should be implemented. Information on the residual risks should also be provided. • To ensure the intended measures work correctly, overall validation is necessary. This overall validation shall evaluate the design and technical measures, as well as the organizational measures in context. We can guide you to safe machinery in 6 steps. The procedure is outlined on the previous page. About this guide What does the guide contain? Who is this guide for? In front of technical documentation file for the machine; in particular, this shall include all safety­related design documents. • You shall supply operating instructions with the product in the official language of the country of use. The original version is also to be supplied with the product. • You shall complete a declaration of conformity and mark the machine or the safety component with the CE mark. §§--88 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Laws, regulations, directives, standards Standards Laws, regulations, directives, standards Standards Standards This Guide essentially references the most prominent national standards in the Americas. A list of relevant standards is provided in the annex. § Relevant international and local standards are listed in Annex i starting g i­6. Standards are agreements made between the various inter­ dards has taken place. Depending on the place the machine or ested parties (manufacturers, users, test bodies, occupational product is to be used, different legal stipulations may apply that health and safety authorities, and governments). Contrary to make it necessary to apply different standards. The correct se­ popular opinion, standards are not prepared by or agreed upon lection of the standards to be applied is an aid for the machine by governments or authorities. Standards describe the state­of­ suppliers, integrators, and users for compliance with the legal the­art at the time they are prepared. Over the last 100 years, a requirements. change from national standards to globally applicable stan­ Global standardization organizations and structures ISO (International Standardization IEC (International Electrotechnical Organization) Commission) ISO is a worldwide network of standardization IEC is a global organization that prepares and organizations from 157 countries. ISO pre­ publishes international standards in the area pares and publishes international standards of electrical technology (e.g., electronics, com­ focused on non­electrical technologies. munications, electromagnetic compatibility, power member states: g ec.europa.eu/enterprise/newapproach/nando Plastics Industry: states and/or EFTA states and other ➜ www.plasticsindustry.org states with whom the EU has concluded a Mutual Recognition Agreement (MRA) can Printing, Publishing and Converting Technologies: be obtained from the EU's NANDO informa- ➜ www.npes.org tion system. i Industrial Trucks: ➜ www.itsdf.org Semiconductor Equipment: ➜ www.semi.org/en 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK i-13 SSuubbjjeecctt ttoo cchhaannggee wwiitthhoouutt nnoottiiccee Overview of relevant standards Annex Glossary/Index Abbreviation/Term Definition Index λ Failure rate per hour λ: Failure rate per hour, λ and λ added together - 3-15 S D • λ: Safe failure rate g 3-90