safety and health requirements of tions, known as “original operating instructions.” A set of the Machinery Directive. The manufacturers shall take account operating instructions in the official language of the country of of the safety integration during the design process. In practice, use shall be supplied with every machine. These operating in­ this means that the designer shall perform risk assessment structions supplied with the machine shall either be the original as early as during the development phase of the machine. The operating instructions or a translation of the original operating resulting measures can flow directly into the design. Steps the cross-section of the piston slide relative to the two main causes are: changes in cross-section inside the housing affect volume flow and are known as “control edges.” An essential feature of this • Contamination that occurs during assembly = assembly con- valve design worthy of note is what is known as the “lap.” The tamination (e.g., chips, mold sand, fibers from cloths, basic lap is the longitudinal distance between the stationary and mov- contamination) ing control edges of the slide valve. Due to the gap between the • Contamination that occurs during operation = operating piston and the housing bore required for hard-sealing valves, a contamination (e.g., ambient contamination, component leak will occur in the event of a pressure differential. abrasion) These contaminations must be reduced to an acceptable de- gree with the aid of filters. A filter concept refers to the suitable selection of a filter princi- ple for the task required as well as the arrangement of the filter in an appropriate location. The filter concept must be designed so that it is able to retain in the filter the contamination added to the entire system in such a way that the required purity is maintained throughout the operating time. - Proven safety principles: ISO 13849-2 (B-type standard) - Safety-related requirements on hydraulic/pneumatic systems: ISO 4413, ISO 4414 - Aging process on hydraulic valves: BIA report 6/2004 3-74 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Safety-related pneumatics Electropneumatic control systems use a logic unit to imple- operating modes as element safety functions. Purely pneumatic ment safety functions. The logic unit provides electrical signals control systems exist alongside electropneumatic control sys- that act on the drive/actuators via a combination of a number tems. The advantage of these solutions is that the deterministic of valves; these valves act as power control elements. Typi- nature of the pneumatics makes it relatively easy to set up ele- cal safety-related functions can be allocated to a machine’s ment safety functions that are purely pneumatic. Aerate Hold pressure Pressure and force Vent reduction Initial setting, standstill 3 Setup and Normal operation c service mode Two-hand Protection against operation tampering, protection against Emergency operation unexpected starting Reduction in Switch to Stop, hold, block Reverse speed zero force movement movement Direct pneumatic effect on movement Indirect pneumatic effect on movement Source: Festo AG & Co. KG – Safety Technology Guidelines 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 3-75 Subject to change without notice Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Risk reduction Product overview: Safety technology for machine safety Summary: Designing the safety function Sensors Logic Power control elements General § • Draft a safety concept. During this process, take into account features of the machine, features of the surroundings, human Safety light curtains aspects, features of the design, and features of protective devices. Electrical drives with • Design the safety functions with the required level of safety. Safety functions are formed by the subsystems sensor, logic, element safety and actuator. Safety camera sub-functions 1 • Determine the level of safety for each subsystem from the safety-related parameters of structure, reliability, diagnostics, systems resistance, and process conditions. 1 Safety relays Properties and application of protective devices Multiple light beam safety devices • Determine the necessary properties for your protective device. Do you need, for example, one or more electro-sensitive protective devices (ESPE), guards, movable guards or fixed position protective devices? Single-beam safety Safety pneumatic • Determine the correct positioning and dimensions for each protective device, in particular the safety distance (minimum devices valves 2) distance) and the necessary protective field size/height for the protective device concerned. • Integrate the protective devices as stated in the instruction handbook and as necessary for the level of safety. 2 Safety laser scanners Logic units • Choose the correct logic unit based on the number of safety functions and the logic depth. • Use certified function blocks and keep your design clear. Interlocking devices: Contactors 3) • Have the design and the documentation thoroughly checked (principle of counter checking by a second person). 3 With separate actuator c Modular safety controllers and With actuator for Motion control locking devices Frequency inverters 4) For switching cam, turning lever Brakes 2) Magnetically coded RFID coded Pneumatic valves 1) Inductive Emergency stop pushbutton Enabling switch Safe sensor cascade Motor feedback systems Hydraulic valves 1) Encoders Photoelectric sensors Magnetic and inductive sensors Service solutions from SICK LifeTime Services (g page i-1 in Annex i “How SICK supports you”) With the approval of: 1) Bosch Rexroth AG, 2) FESTO AG & Co. KG, 3) Eaton Industries GmbH, 4) SEW-EURODRIVE GmbH & Co. KG. - All SICK products are listed in our online product finder at http://www.sickusa.com/ 3-76 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Summary: Designing the safety function General • Draft a safety concept. During this process, take into account features of the machine, features of the surroundings, human aspects, features of the design, and features of protective devices. • Design the safety functions with the required level of safety. Safety functions are formed by the subsystems sensor, logic, and actuator. • Determine the level of safety for each subsystem from the safety-related parameters of structure, reliability, diagnostics, resistance, and process conditions. Properties and application of protective devices • Determine the necessary properties for