be provided. Here the If wires and ropes are used as actuating elements for emer- supply of power is shut down using electromechanical switch- gency devices, they shall be designed and fitted such that they gear. are easy to actuate and when pulled or the wire/rope is cut. Reset mechanisms should be arranged in the manner that the • It shall only be possible to switch on the supply of power af- entire length of the wire or rope is visible from the location of ter all emergency switching off commands have been reset. the reset mechanism. • As a result, emergency switching off is stop Category 0. - Design principles and requirements for emergency stop: NFPA 79, IEC 60204-1, ANSI B11.19 and ISO 13 850 - See also section: “Emergency stop” (g 3-7) - Emergency operations: Machinery Directive 2006/42/EC 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 3-43 Subject to change without notice Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Risk reduction Positioning and dimensioning of protective devices One essential aspect for the selection of an optimal protective § device is the space available. It must be ensured that the dan- Start Select type of protection gerous state can be eliminated in time before the hazardous point is reached. The necessary minimum distance is dependent on, among Determine response times and other aspects, the size and type of the protective device. stopping/run-down times 1 Calculate minimum distance Is the No minimum distance practical? 2 Yes Determine size, height, and position of protective field 3 Yes Has a No End suitable solution c been found? Minimum distance for ESPE dependent upon approach The consideration of the minimum distance applies to ESPE with two-dimensional protective field (e.g., light curtains, photoelectric switches (AOPD), laser scanners (AOPDDR), or two-dimensional camera systems). In general, a differentiation is made between three different approach types. S S Hazard zone Hazard zone Hazard zone S H β H H Floor Floor Floor Perpendicular approach or entry Parallel approach/parallel entry to Angular approach to protective field plane perpendicular to protective field plane protective field plane After the ESPE has been selected for the safety function If the minimum distance to the hazard zone is too large and “initiating a stop,” the required minimum distance between the unacceptable from an ergonomic viewpoint, either the overall ESPE’s protective field and the nearest hazardous point is to be stopping time of the machine must be reduced or an ESPE with calculated. better resolution or response time shall be chosen. The possi- bility of someone standing between the protective field and the The following parameters shall be taken into account: hazard zone shall be prevented. • Stopping time of the machine • Response time of the safety-related control system ➜ Calculation of the minimum distance for an ESPE: • Response time of the protective device (ESPE) OSHA 1910.217, ANSI B11.19, RIA TR R15.406, • Supplements according to the resolution capability of the CSA Z432, NR-12, ISO 13855 ESPE, the protective field, and/or the type of approach 3-44 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Two similar calculations exist to accurately determine the ap- Where: propriate minimum distance of safeguarding devices; one in • D or S is the minimum distance in millimeters, measured s North America and another in International standards. When from the nearest hazardous point to the detection point or to applied accurately, either method has proven reliable. the detection line or detection plane of the ESPE. Users and integrators should consider all local and regional • K is a parameter in millimeters per second, derived from regulatory requirements and consensus standards when select- the data for the approach speeds of the body or parts of the ing which methodology to apply. body. • T is the stopping/run-down time of the overall system in General calculation formulas seconds • D or C is the additional distance in millimeters that repre- pf sents the intrusion into the hazard zone before the protec- North America: tive device is triggered. If it is not possible to reach through D = (K x T) + D s pf the protective field of the ESPE, the additional distance is determined by the detection capability (resolution) of the Europe / International: ESPE and is referred to as C (reach through). If it is pos- S = (K x T) + C RT sible to reach over the protective field of the ESPE, the addi- tional distance is determined by the height of the protective field and is referred to as C (reach over). RO 3 The table on pages 3-46 and 3-47 contains the formulas for NOTE: The resolution value d is also referred to as S or O in c s the calculation of the factors to consider for determining the North American standards. For the examples in the table, the minimum distance, where: variable d will be used exclusively. • ß is the angle between the detection plane and the ap- proach direction • H is the height of the protective field (detection plane) above the working surface • d is the resolution of the ESPE (detection capability) 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 3-45 Subject to change without notice Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Risk reduction North America (based on ANSI B11.19, RIA TR R15.406, and CSA Z432) Europe / International (based on ISO 13855 and NR-12) Detection § capability, d Detection capability, d Beam height, H Intrusion Minimum Beam height, H Intrusion Minimum Approach (resolution/ Depth of field (resolution/object (distance from floor) Factor, D Distance (distance from floor) Factor, C Distance object pf sensitivity) sensitivity) Perpendicular: ß = 90° (±5°) S = (K x ∑ T ) + C total S Hazard zone Finger/hand Calculation of the minimum Calculation of the minimum height of the high- where K = 2000 mm/s. In this case, S shall height of the highest beam Finger/hand detection: be ≥ 100 mm. If S > 500 mm, then use: 1