stipulations may apply that make it necessary to apply different standards. The correct selection and application of standards supports the machine manufacturer to ensure compliance with legal requirements. This guide makes reference to international standards (ISO, IEC). An overview of the relevant standards is provided in the annex, page 166. The overview also contains their regional equivalents (e.g. EN) or equivalent national standards to the referenced international standards. Global standardization organizations and structures ISO (International Standardization Organization) ISO is a worldwide network of standardization organizations from 165 countries. ISO prepares and publishes international standards focused on non-electrical technolo‐ gies. IEC Monitoring O1 Single-error safety (with error detection) makes the equipment suita‐ signal Output signal bility for category 3 or 4. Note: The category is not defined definitively until the DC value has been specified. I2 Input L2 Monitoring O2 signal Output signal ssorc ecnerefer 3D – VERIFYING THE SAFETY FUNCTION 3) Determination of the MTTF per channel B D 10D MTTF = --------------------------------- As contactors are subject to wear, the B 10D value and the estimated D 0,1×n op switching frequency (n ) must be used to calculate the MTTF . The op D following formula applies: The figure for the switching frequency comprises operating B 10D hours/day [h ], working days/year [d ] as well as the switching MTTF = ---------------------------------------------------------------------- op op D 0,1×d ×h ×C frequency per hour [C]: op op General conditions according to the manufacturer: • B 10D = 2,600.000 MTTF D Range • C = 1 / h (assumed) Low 3 years ≤ MTTF < 10 years D • d = 220 d/a op Medium 10 years ≤ MTTF < 30 years • h = 16 h/d D op High 30 years ≤ MTTF < 100 years These boundary conditions result in an MTTF of 7,386 years per D D channel, which is interpreted as “high”. 4) Determination of DC DC Range As the contacts are positively guided, a high DC (99%) can be None DC < 60% derived from ISO 13849-1 according to the table. Low 60% ≤ DC < 90% Medium 90% ≤ DC < 99% High 99% ≤ DC Example: Determining the PL of the “power control elements” subsystem 5) Evaluation of the measures to prevent common cause failures Requirement Point Minimum Measures to avoid the common cause effect are implemented in s requirement multi-channel systems. The evaluation of the measures results in a Separation 15 score of 75. This meets the minimum requirement. Diversity 20 Design, application, experience 20 Total points Analysis, evaluation 5 75 ≥ 65 Competence/training 5 Effect of the environment 35 Total 75 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 137 Subject to change without notice Example: Determining the PL of the “power control elements” subsystem 6) Evaluation of process measures Fulfilled Similarly, systematic aspects for the avoidance and management of faults must be taken into account. For example: • Organization and competence • Rules governing design (e.g., specifications templates, coding guidelines) • Test concept and test criteria • Documentation and configuration management 7) Result 10-4 The PL of the subsystem can be determined from the figure for a determining the PL of the subsystem (see "Determining the achieved b Performance Level (PL)", page 130). In this case, the PL “e” has c been achieved. The resulting PFH value of 2.47 × 10–8 for this subsystem can be d D obtained from a detailed table in ISO 13849-1. The high DC means e that the dual-channel structure meets the requirements of category 4. PFHD value 10-5 10-6 10-7 10-8 DC None None Low Medium Low Medium High Category B 1 2 2 3 3 4 )LP( leveL ecnamrofreP 3D – VERIFYING THE SAFETY FUNCTION NOTE With the resulting data for the subsystem, it is now possible to determine the performance level of the entire safety function achieved (see "Determining the achieved Performance Level (PL)", page 130). Alternative: Determining the achieved safety integrity level (SIL) The achieved safety integrity level (SIL) according to IEC 62061 is determined based on the following criteria: • The safety integrity of the hardware Structural restrictions (SIL claim limit) ° Probability of dangerous hardware failures (PFH ) ° D • The requirements for systematic safety integrity Avoidance of failures ° Management of systematic errors ° Here – similar to ISO 13849-1 – to determine the PL the safety function is first broken down into function blocks and then transferred to subsystems. Figure 115: Subsystems in the safety chain: safety light curtain. Logic unit, contactor Safety integrity of the hardware When considering the overall safety function, the safety integrity of the hardware is determined by the following factors ... 138 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice • The lowest SIL of a subsystem restricts the maximum SIL that can be achieved by the overall system. • The PFH of the overall control system from the sum of the individual PFH does not exceed the values in D D Figure see figure 109 “Verification of functional safety”. Example In the figure above, all subsystems achieve SIL3. The addition of the PFH values does not exceed 1 × 10–7. The relevant D measures for systematic safety integrity are in place. Therefore, the safety function achieves SIL3. Systematic safety integrity When different subsystems are interconnected to create a control system, additional measures for systematic safety integrity must be taken to avoid systematic errors. Measures for avoiding systematic hardware errors include, amongst other things, the following: • Design in accordance with the functional safety plan • Correct selection, combination, arrangement, assembly, and installation of subsystems, including cabling, wiring, and other connections • Use within the manufacturer's specifications • Compliance with application instructions provided by the manufacturer (catalog data, installation instructions, and application of proven practical experience, for example) • Observance of requirements with regard to electrical equipment in accordance with IEC 60204-1 Furthermore, consideration must be given to the control of systematic errors, for example through