• General description of the machine: Overview drawing of the machine, circuit diagrams of the control circuits along with descriptions and ° explanations necessary to understand how the machine operates Complete detailed drawings (possibly including calculations), test results, certificates, etc., necessary to ° examine the extent to which the machine meets essential health and safety requirements • List of applicable standards and other technical specifications citing the essential health and safety require‐ ments taken from these standards 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 155 Subject to change without notice 6 – PLACING ON THE MARKET • Risk assessment documentation ("1 – Risk assessment", page 22) showing which procedure was used: List of the essential health and safety requirements applicable to the machine ° Description of the protective measures taken to avoid the hazards identified or reduce risk and, if ° applicable, list of the residual risks posed by the machine • All technical reports with the results of tests carried out by the manufacturer or a body selected by the manufacturer or the manufacturer's agent • Instruction handbook for the machine • Copy of the EU declaration of conformity • If applicable, copy of the EU declarations of conformity for the other machines or products incorporated into the machine • If applicable, declaration of incorporation and mounting instructions for incomplete machines Operating instructions The person placing the machine on the market (manufacturer or his authorized representative) must supply with the machine an instruction handbook in one of the official EU languages of the Member State in which the machine is placed on the market. These operating instructions supplied with the machine must either be the “original operating instructions” or a “translation of the original operating instructions”. In the latter case, the original operating instructions must also be supplied (all operating instructions for which the manufacturer assumes responsibility are deemed to be “original operating instructions”). For additional information, see "4 – Information for use", page 151. 156 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 🏭 RESPONSIBILITY OF THE USER 🏭 Responsibility of the user Employers are responsible for the safety of their employees. Machines shall be ergonomic and be capable of being operated safely according to the qualifications of the machine operators. As well as acceptance testing to verify safety and inspections on delivery, the correct and proper specification Position fixing Movable Fences, barriers, Doors, gates, Pressure sensitive Electro-sensitive Two-hand Emergency Enabling that can only be flaps and (PSPE) (ESPE) control device stop1) device removed with tool barriers that Emergency are actuated ISO 13856-x IEC 61496-1 ISO 13851 ISO 13850 stop -1/Pressure sensitive mat -2/ AOPD Interlocking devices -2/Pressure sensitive rails -3/ AOPDDR -5/ RBPD ISO 14119 -3/Bumpers and plates -4/ VBPD MACHINE-SPECIFIC TYPE-C STANDARD e.g.: ISO 10218-2 Robot systems 1) Emergency stop is a safety measure but it is not a protective device! Type-A standard AOPD Active optoelectronic protective device Type-B standard AOPDDR Active optoelectronic protective device responsive to diffuse reflection VBPD Vision based protective device Type-C standard RBPD R a d a r b ased protective device Figure 9: Protective devices and related standards European standardization organizations and structures CEN (Comité Européen de Normalisation/European Committee for Standardization) CEN is a group of standardization organizations from EU member states, the EFTA countries as well as future members from CEN or EFTA. CEN prepares the European Standards (EN) in non-electrical areas. To prevent these standards representing barri‐ ers to trade, CEN collaborates with ISO. Using a voting procedure, CEN determines whether ISO standards are adopted and publishes them as European standards. CENELEC (Comité Européen de Normalisation Electrotechnique/European Commit‐ tee for Electrotechnical Standardization) CENELEC is the comparable institution to CEN in the area of electrical technology, and prepares and publishes European standards (EN) in this area. CENELEC is increas‐ ingly adopting IEC standards and their numbering system. 18 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice § – LAWS, DIRECTIVES, STANDARDS National standardization organizations and structures As a rule each EU member state has its own standardization organization, e.g., DIN, ON, BSI, AFNOR. These prepare and publish national standards in accordance with the of safety requirements is something that ought to be taken into account as early as when purchasing a machine. How should machinery be purchased? The procurement process is crucial to the success of a project to build or modernize a production facility. The following points, for example, should be considered: • For complex assemblies of machines, designate a “site manager” in accordance with the Machinery Directive. • Clarify the procedure for the machinery or machine components provided in advance. • Draw up a contract specifying how additional documentation is to be provided (e.g., risk assessment, etc.) so that it will be easier to make changes downstream. • Define, as far as possible, the usage of important standards (harmonized standards in the EU) as the basis. • Agree on a procedure in the event of deviations from harmonized standards. Safety inspections Experience shows that in practice, machine safety is not perfect. Protective devices are often manipulated by the machine operator in order to work without hindrance. Other problems are the incorrect positioning of protective devices and improper integration into control systems. The safety state of work equipment and systems in operation is regulated by EU Directive 2009/104 / EC (“Work Equipment Directive”); it shall be inspected to ensure conformance with applicable national legislation. In particular, Article 4a of the Directive defines the inspection of work equipment. Technical rules, standards or certain regulations can serve as a guide as to how the inspection should be carried out. The user of the respective equipment must perform a risk assessment and is responsible for ensuring that the inspection is carried out and that occupational safety is ensured. In so doing, the user shall ensure that work equipment is inspected in accordance with the national transposition of the Work Equipment Directive to the country of