executed with type 4 AOPDs and an effective resolution d ≤ 30 mm. In PSDI mode, the machine waits at a defined position for a specified number of interruptions by the operator. The safety light curtain releases the dangerous movement again automatically after a specific number of interruptions. The ESPE has to be reset under the following conditions: • When the machine starts • On restart when the AOPD is interrupted within a dangerous movement • If no PSDI was triggered within the specified PSDI time It must be checked that no danger to the operator can arise during the work process. This limits the use of this operating mode on machines in which there is no possibility for whole body access and it is not possible for the operator to remain undetected between the protective field and the machine (presence detection). Single break PSDI mode means that the AOPD initiates the machine function after the operator has completed one intervention. Double break PSDI mode means that the AOPD holds the machine function in the locked state after the operator's first intervention (e.g., removal of a machined workpiece). Only after the operator has completed the second intervention (e.g., feeding in of a blank) does the safety light curtain release the machine function again. PSDI mode is often used on presses and stamps, but can also be used on other machines (e.g., rotating tables, automatic assembly systems). When using PSDI mode, it must not be possible to stand behind the light curtain. For presses, special conditions apply for PSDI mode. Figure 63: Single break PSDI mode on an automatic assembly system with safety light curtain. During loading, the tool is at the top point. After the operator leaves the protective field, the assembly process gets underway. NOTE For PSDI mode, the resolution of the AOPD shall be better than or equivalent to 30 mm (finger or hand detection). NOTE - PSDI triggering: Type-B standards ISO 13855, IEC 61496-1 - PSDI mode on presses: Type-C series of standards ISO 16092 82 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Different protective fields If protective fields with different shapes and/or dimen‐ sions are required, corresponding requirements must be met. These requirements relate to: • the safety level of the safety-related parts of the control system (SRP/CS) • the avoidance of inadmissible conditions or inad‐ missible reconfigurations • the activation, as well as the conditions for initiat‐ ing the automatic mode of the machine • the state to be adopted when a fault is detected • the necessary conditions for selecting the protec‐ tive field • the installation and the organizational measures When applications with simultaneous field evalua‐ tions are implemented, the number of switchovers is reduced. The design is greatly simplified. Figure 64: Protective fields of a safety laser scanner with different geometries on an autonomous vehicle Figure 65: Application example for protective fields on an autonomous vehicle 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 83 Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Additional requirements for automatic selection of active protective fields to allow passage of materials into or out of a hazardous area: • A “maximum” (largest) active protective field must be configured in such a way as to prevent unde‐ tected access to hazardous areas when such access is not blocked by the material. • At least one of the switching signals must be gen‐ erated by a sensor that detects the position of the material that is blocking access to the hazardous area. • Interruption and/or restoration of the power sup‐ ply to the sensors for material detection must not result in the selection of an active protective field that is not suitable for the machine state. • The largest protective field is automatically acti‐ vated immediately after the material passes Figure 66: Schematic representation of protective field through the active protective field. switching using safety light curtains (AOPD) for the passage of materials • The automatic selection of the active protective field must not be triggered by a ground fault or an interruption in the signal lines or power supply to the material detection sensor(s). Figure 67: Schematic representation of protective field switching using vertically mounted safety laser scanners (AOPDDR) for the passage of materials Fixed position protective devices Fixed position protective devices are non-physical guards that ensure a person is located outside the hazardous area, for example buttons, foot switches or two-hand controls. NOTE A comprehensive overview of position fixing protective devices is given in: - Alfred Neudörfer: Konstruieren sicherheitsgerechter Produkte, Springer-Verlag, Berlin u. a., ISBN 978-3-662-62703-7 (8th edition 2020) 84 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Two-hand control device The hazardous function is only triggered by deliberate actuation of two control switches (e.g., pushbuttons) and ends as soon as one of the control switches is no longer actuated. A two-hand control device can only protect one operator at a time. If several operators operate a machine, a separate two-hand control device must be installed for each operator. There are several types of two-hand control devices. The distinguishing characteristics are listed below. Figure 68: Example use of a two-hand device. This is designed to be movable (ergonomics). A spacer ring ensures that the safety distance from the hazardous point is main‐ tained. The following basic principles apply to all types: • It shall be ensured that both hands are used. • Releasing one of the two controls stops the dangerous function. • Accidental actuation must be prevented. • It is not possible to simply bypass the two-hand control device. • It must not be possible to take the two-hand control device into the hazardous area. For type II and type III two-hand control devices, the following also apply: • A new function may only be initiated after both controls have been released and