Safety Guide for the Americas Six steps to a safe machine Contents Six steps to a safe machine Six steps to a safe machine Contents Six steps to a safe machine Laws, directives, standards, liability g §-1 • Regulatory requirements g §-1 • European directives g §-4 § • Obligations of the machine manufacturer g §-5 • Standards g §-9 • International/European standards g §-11 • Nationally recognized testing labs g §-14 • Test bodies, insurance providers, and authorities g §-15 Risk assessment g 1-1 • The risk assessment process g 1-1 1 • Functions of the machine g 1-3 • Identification of tasks and hazards g 1-4 • Risk estimation and risk evaluation g 1-5 • Documentation g 1-6 EE--22 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice 1-2 g dohtem pets-3 ehT – noitcuder ksiR Safe design g 2-3 • Mechanical design g 2-3 • Operating and maintenance concept g 2-4 • Electrical installation g 2-5 2 • Enclosure ratings g 2-8 • Lock-out/tag-out g 2-10 • Stop functions g 2-11 • Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) g 2-12 • Fluid technology g 2-14 • Use in potentially explosive atmospheres g 2-15 c Design of the safety function Technical protective measures g 3-1 • Development of the safety concept g 3-13 a Definition of the safety functions g 3-2 • Selection of the protective devices g 3-18 3 b Determination of the required g 3-9 • Positioning and dimensioning of g 3-44 protective devices safety level • Integration of protective devices into g 3-65 the control system Implementation of the safety functions • Product overview for safeguarding g 3-76 d Verification of the safety function g 3-79 e Validation of all safety functions g 3-95 4 Administrative measures / information about residual risks g 4-1 5 of employm ent. • The Building Code Act and Ontario Building Code (as Part II of the Canada Labour Code provides an employee with amended) three fundamental rights: • The Fire Marshals Act and Ontario Fire Code (as amended) • The Electricity Act and Ontario Electrical Safety Code (as • The right to know amended) • The right to participate • Canadian Electrical Code • The right to refuse • National Building Code (NBC) • National Fire Code (NFC) Below is a link to local authorities: - http://www.ccohs.ca/oshanswers/information/govt.html Ontario regulations In this case, any of the following are used as protective elements For example, four separate safety regulati ons (Regulation for in connection with a machine or apparatus: Industrial Establish ments, Construction Sites, Mines, and Health • Safeguarding devices that signal the machine to stop, includ­ Care Facilities) have been defined in the Province of Ontario. ing but not limited to, safety light curtains and screens, area Canada expects that employers, supervisors, owners and con­ scanning safeguarding systems, radio frequency systems, two­ structors, among others, have an obli gation to know and comply hand control systems, two­hand tripping systems, and single with the regula tions that have been passed under the Act. or multiple beam systems; Section 7 of the Regulation for Industrial Establishments defines • Barrier guards that use interlocking mechanical or electrical a process for Pre­Start Health and Safety Reviews. The intent of safeguarding devices. this section is to ensure that a timely professional review identi­ Additional provisions outside the scope of this guideline may also fies and either removes or controls specific hazards, before a trigger a Pre­Start Health and Safety Review. machine or process is started up. Many workplaces that regularly employ 20 or more workers are The requirements for a Pre­Start Health and Safety Review proven their worth 2 in industrial applications, 3-position enabling devices are to be recommended and are required by most North American standards. 3 c These measures are not a substitute for Lock-Out/Tag-Out The machine start shall not be initiated solely by the procedures. actuation of an enabling device. Instead, movement is only permitted as long as the enabling device is actuated. Principle of operation of the 3-position enabling device: Position Actuator Function 1 Not operated Off 2 In middle position (pressure point) Enable 3 Beyond middle position Emergency stop (off) The enabling device function must not be reactivated while When multiple people are in the hazard zone when protective changing back from position 3 to position 2. devices are disabled, each person must have their own en- If enabling devices are equipped with separate contacts in posi- abling device, and each selected device must be concurrently tion 3, these contacts should be integrated into the emergency operated before hazardous machine functions can be initiated. stop circuit. The means of returning the machine control to the operating The selection of activating an enabling device must be capable mode must be located outside of the hazard zone such that it of supervisory control (e.g., keyswitch, password) to prevent cannot be reached from within the hazard zone to ensure the unauthorized selection or de-selection while in use. When an hazard zone is clear of individuals. enabling device is in use, the machine control systems must Protection against manipulation shall be considered when us- ensure that only one actuating control can initiate hazardous ing enabling devices. machine function. - Requirements for enabling devices: ANSI B11.19, ANSI/ASSE Z244.1, CSA Z432, NR-12, NFPA 79, IEC 60204-1 (B-type standards) 3-40 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Sensors for monitoring machine parameters The risk assessment may show that certain machine param- eters shall be monitored and detected during operation. Safe position monitoring Safety-related sensors or position switches can be used to pre- vent a machine overrunning or leaving a specific position (g 3-5). Electro-sensitive safety inductive position switches are par- ticularly suitable for this task. They monitor a certain part of the process (e.g., robot’s axis or a moving part of a machine) for presence without the need for a specific mating element, without wear, and with a high enclosure rating. 3 Safe position monitoring for