Detection occurs when an opaque object fully interrupts one or more beams. The receiver signals the beam interruption by a signal change (OFF state) to its output signal switching devices (OS- 1 SDs). This signals from the OSSDs are used to stop the danger- ous machine functions. The standards IEC 61496-2, UL 61496-2, ANSI B11.19, RIA TR R15.406, and CSA Z432 define safety requirements for AOPDs. Typical AOPDs include single-beam and multiple light beam safety devices and safety light curtains. AOPDs with a capabil- 2 ity to detect a body or arm and not a finger or hand are called multiple light beam safety devices. They are used to protect access to hazard zones (see figure). International standards define this as devices with a detection capability more than 40 mm, whereas North American standards define this limit as 3 more than 64 mm. Hazardous point protection using a safety light curtain c With both multiple light beam safety devices and safety light curtains, rather than all light beams being activated at the same time, they are usually activated and deactivated in rapid sequence one after the other. This increases resistance to interference from other sources of light and increases their reliability accordingly. On state-of-the-art AOPDs, there is auto- matic synchronization between sender and receiver through an optical link. By using microprocessors, the beams can be evaluated indi- vidually. This enables additional ESPE functions to be imple- mented in addition to the protective function itself (g 3-37). Access protection with a multiple light beam safety device 3-28 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Safety laser scanners (AOPDDR) Vision-based protective devices (VBPD) AOPDDRs are protective devices that use optoelectronic VBPDs are camera-based protective devices and use image sender and receiver elements to detect the reflection of optical capturing and processing technologies for safety detection of radiation generated by the protective device. This reflection is people (see figure). generated by an object in a predefined two-dimensional area. Special light senders are currently used as light sources. VBPDs Detection is signaled by a signal change (OFF state) to its out- that use ambient light are also possible. put signal switching devices (OSSDs). These signals from the Various principles can be used to detect people, including: OSSDs are used to stop the hazardous machine functions. • Interruption of the light reflected by a retro-reflector A safety laser scanner is an optical sensor which monitors • Travel time measurement of the light reflected by an object a hazard zone on a machine or vehicle by scanning the area • Monitoring of changes from background patterns around it on a single plane with infrared light beams. • Detection of persons based on human characteristics It works on the basis of the principle of time-of-flight measure- ment (see the figure below). The scanner sends very short light pulses (S) while an "electronic stopwatch" runs simultaneously. If the light strikes an object, it is reflected and received by the scanner (R). The scanner calculates the distance from the ob- ject from the difference between the send and receive times. A uniformly rotating mirror (M) in the scanner deflects the light pulses such that a sector of a circle is covered. The scanner then determines the exact position of the object from the mea- 3 sured distance and the angle of rotation of the mirror. c Camera-based protective device The future international standard series IEC 61496-4 will state safety requirements for VBPDs. Basic structure of a laser scanner The user can program the area in which object detection trips the protective field. State-of-the-art devices allow multiple areas to be monitored simultaneously as well as switching between these areas during operation. This feature can be used, for example, to adapt the monitored area to the speed of a vehicle. Safety laser scanners use individually emitted pulses of light in precise directions and do not continuously cover the area to be monitored. Resolutions (detection capabilities) between 30 mm and 150 mm are achieved through this operating principle. With the active scanning principle, safety laser scanners do not need external receivers or reflectors. Safety laser scanners also have to be able to reliably detect objects with extremely low re- flectivity (e.g., black work clothing). The standards IEC 61496-3, ANSI B11.19, RIA TR R15.406, and CSA Z432 state the safety requirements for AOPDDRs. 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 3-29 Subject to change without notice Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Risk reduction Detection capability (resolution) of optoelectronic protective devices The detection capability is defined as the limit for the sensor For safety laser scanners (AOPDDR), the detection capability is parameter that causes the electro-sensitive protective equip- dependent upon the distance to the object, the angle between § ment (ESPE) to trigger. the individual beams of light (pulse), and the shape and size of In practice, this is the size of the smallest object detected by the transmitted beam. the ESPE within the defined monitored area (protective field). The reliability of the detection capability is determined by the The detection capability is specified by the manufacturer. In type classification in the IEC 61496 and UL 61496 series of general, the detection capability is determined from the sum standards. 1 of the beam separation and effective beam diameter. This Type 3 is defined for AOPDDR. Types 2 and 4 are defined for ensures that an object of this size always covers a light beam AOPD (requirements are listed in the table). and is always detected regardless of its position in the protec- Requirements for optical sources of interference (sunlight, dif- tive field. ferent lamp types, devices of the same design, etc.), reflective surfaces, misalignment during normal operation, and the dif- fuse reflection of safety laser scanners play an important role. 2 Type 2 Type 4 Functional safety The protective function may be lost if a fault The protective function is maintained even if occurs between test intervals multiple faults occur 3 EMC (electromagnetic compatibility)