any more than necessary. Movable guards must meet the following ergonomic criteria: • Easy (e.g., one-handed) opening and closing, lifting, or moving Good Acceptable • Handle to suit function • Opened guards should allow convenient access Interlocking of guards Guards must be interlocked if they: • Are actuated cyclically or opened regularly (doors, flaps) • Can be easily removed without tools (e.g., covers) or • Protect against a potentially serious hazard “Interlocking” means that the opening of the guard is converted into a control signal that stops the hazardous machine function. Guards are normally interlocked using position switches. The interlocking of a guard should fulfill the following functions: • The hazardous machine functions cannot be initiated with the guard open/missing (preventing starting) • The hazardous machine functions are stopped when the guard is opened/removed (initiating a stop) 3-20 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Safeguarding (technical protective measures) There are four types of interlocking devices associated with guards as described in ISO 14119: Designation Actuation Actuator SICK product Principle Example Principle Examples Example Switching cam i10P Type 1 Not coded Turning lever i10R Physical Mechanical contact, force, pressure Hinge i10H Shaped actuator (switching rod) i16S Type 2 Coded Key – Inductive Suitable ferromagnetic materials IN4000 Magnetic Magnets, electromagnets MM12 1) 3 Type 3 Capacitive Not coded All suitable materials CM18 1) c Electro- Ultrasonic All suitable materials UM12 1) sensitive Optical All suitable materials WT 12 1) Magnetic Coded magnet RE11 Type 4 Coded RFID Coded RFID transponder TR4 Direct Optical Coded optical actuator – 1) These sensors are not designed for safety applications. If they are used in interlocking devices, the designer shall give very careful consideration to systematic and common cause failures and take additional measures accordingly. Type 3 interlocking devices should only be used if the risk assessment shows that manipulation is not foreseeable or additional measures have been applied to prevent it. Safety switches, position switches, and interlocking devices The commonly used term "safety switch" does not appear in the standards because the multitude of technologies and suitable sen- sor designs for interlocking devices does not allow general requirements to be defined. Regardless of the technology used (mechanical, electrical, pneumatic, hydraulic), the following definitions apply: • An interlocking device consists of an actuator and a position switch. • A position switch consists of an actuating element and an output signal element. Depending on the technology of the position switch used and the functional safety requirements, either one or more interlocking devices will be required for a guard. 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 3-21 Subject to change without notice Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Risk reduction Mechanical attachment Reliable mechanical attachment of the position switches and • They must be arranged, installed, and mounted so that they actuators is crucial for their effectiveness. The elements of are protected against unintentional changes to their position § interlocking devices: (location). The switch and the actuator can be secured by • They shall be fitted such that they are protected against shape (not force), e.g., using round holes, pins, stops. damage due to foreseeable external effects. • They shall be protected by their actuation method, or their • They shall not be used as a mechanical stop. integration in the control shall be such that they cannot be • Their placement and design shall protect them against easily bypassed. inadvertent operation and damage. • It shall be possible to check the switches for correct opera- 1 tion and, if possible, they shall be easily accessible for inspection. Example: Mechanical attachment of position switches 2 3 c Correct assembly: The interlock switch is Incorrect assembly: The interlock switch is Correct assembly: The height of the cam has protected by a separate mechanical stop. used as a mechanical stop. been matched to the position switch. Method of actuation/Positive mechanical actuation An important requirement to be met by mechanical interlock- Example: Positive mechanical actuation ing devices is that of positive mechanical actuation. Positive mechanical actuation is the forced movement of the mechani- cal components of the interlocking device (safety switch) forced by the mechanical components of the guard (e.g., fence door) either by means of direct contact or by rigid parts. The use of positive mechanical actuation in an interlocking device ensures that the position switch is actuated when the guard is opened and reduces the possibility of manipulation. Safe: The opening of the protec- Flawed: The position switch will tive door positively actuates the not always open the safety circuit, mechanical plunger of the posi- e.g., if the plunger is sticking due tion switch. This opens the safety to encrusted deposits or lubricat- circuit. ing oil residue that has solidified. Source: BG Feinmechanik und Elektrotechnik, BGI 575 3-22 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Positive opening A contact element is positive-opening if the switching contacts Marking of contacts that are positive opening are isolated immediately by a defined movement of the actuat- as per IEC 60947-5-1, Annex K. ing element by non-elastic parts (e.g., springs). The use of posi- tive opening normally closed contacts in position switches with positive mechanical actuation ensures that the electrical circuit is still isolated even if the contacts are worn or other electrical The use of both redundantly monitored electronic outputs faults have occurred. from electro-sensitive position switches is considered The following requirements also apply where positive-opening equivalent to positive opening. If a Type 3 Machinery Directive. . . . . . . . . . §­5 •California •North Carolina health programs. The Work •Connecticut 1) •Oregon OSHA provides contact information and an •Hawaii •Puerto Rico Equipment Directive .............§­5 OSHA profile for each of these State Plans, •Illinois1) •South Carolina Obligations for the machine which may include additional regulations. The •Indiana •Tennessee manufacturer...................§­5 following states and territories of the United •Iowa •Utah Standards ....................§­15 States have recognized programs: •Kentucky •Vermont European standardization .......§­12 •Maryland •Virgin Islands1)