use. The following requirements must be met: 1 Type of inspection 2 Scope of the inspection 3 Level of detail of the inspection 4 Inspection intervals 5 Level of competence of the inspector A safety inspection by SICK provides you with a fast overview of the safety status of your machines. Parts of SICK's sales organization have already been accredited as an inspection body. Accreditation by an independent body verifies that SICK is capable of carrying out the activities specified in the accreditation scope with a high level of reliability and quality. We discuss potential for improvement with you and work in partnership to realize them. 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 157 Subject to change without notice 🏭 RESPONSIBILITY OF THE USER NOTE Work Equipment Directive, Article 4a Inspection of work equipment 1 The employer shall ensure that where the safety of work equipment depends on the assembly conditions, it shall be subject to an initial inspection (after assembly and before first being put into service) and an inspection after assembly at a new site or in a new location by competent persons within the meaning of national laws and/or practices, to ensure that the work equipment has been assembled correctly and is operating properly. 2 The employer shall ensure that work equipment exposed to conditions causing such deterioration is subject to: ■ Periodic inspections and, where appropriate, testing by competent persons within the meaning of national laws and/or practices; and ■ Special inspections by competent persons within the meaning of national laws and/or practices each time that exceptional circumstances which are liable to jeopardize the safety of the work equipment have occurred, such as modification work, accidents, natural phenomena or prolonged periods of inactivity, in order to ensure compliance with health and safety regulations and the timely detection and rectification of resulting damage. 3 The results of inspections shall be recorded and kept at the disposal of the authorities concerned. They must be retained for a suitable period of time. When work equipment is used outside the undertaking it shall be accompanied by physical evidence that the last inspection has been carried out. 4 Member States shall determine the conditions under which such inspections are made. Significant modification of machinery Machines usually have a service life of several decades. The further development of technologies and the requirements of the market lead to a continuous improvement of machines and production systems. In many cases, machines are also modified to fit existing production lines and systems. Such modifications may include features and functions that can have a significant impact on the safety of the machine or production line. National regulations may impose specific requirements on the modification of existing machinery, while others are limited to general mandatory clauses for the user (employer). The European Machinery Directive also requires that significantly modified machinery comply with the essential health and safety requirements. The Machinery Directive does not clarify, however, what is to be considered a significant modification. The national European occupational health and safety authorities are given the freedom to define the criteria for a significant modifica‐ tion. The following methodology was developed jointly by industry and occupational health and safety authorities in Germany and has been in use since 2010. General requirements When a machine is modified, the procedure described in the Methodology section must be performed to deter‐ mine if the modification(s) is (are) significant. Legal note: Limiting the risk assessment and reduction to the modified parts and/or zones of the machine may not be sufficient to comply with national legal requirements. Methodology The following steps must be carried out in the specified order (see figure 127, page 160): Table 59: Steps of the methodology for evaluating significant modifications in machinery Step Description Step 1 Determine if the modifications will result in the occurrence of new hazards. If newly identified hazards result in significant risks, follow Step 3; otherwise, the modifications are considered to be non-substantial. Step 2 If no new hazards have been identified and the modifications do not increase any of the existing risks, the changes are considered non-substantial. If pre-existing risks are increased by the modifi‐ cations, follow Step 3. 158 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 🏭 RESPONSIBILITY OF THE USER Step Description Step 3 The modifications are considered not to be significant if the existing risk reduction measures adequately reduce the risks arising from the new hazards (Step 1) or from the increased risks (Step 2). Otherwise, follow Step 4. Step 4 If the new hazards are eliminated by simple protective devices or by simple integration of additional protective devices, or if the increased risk is adequately reduced, the modifications are considered not to be significant. Otherwise, the modification is considered to be significant. If a modification is considered significant, a risk assessment and risk reduction must be performed in accordance with ISO 12100:2010, but may be limited to those parts and/or zones affected by the modification. Simple protective devices are: • Fixed physical guards or • Movable physical guards, or non-physical guards that do not significantly interfere with the existing safety- related control of the machine. The simple integration of additional protective devices is limited to those that also do not significantly interfere with the existing safety-related parts of control systems (SRP/CS) of the machine: • The signals of the new protective devices are processed in the existing design of the SRP/CS. • Independent of the existing safety controller, only the safe stop of the dangerous machine function is affected. A non-significant modification is considered to be: • Replacement of components of a machine by identical components or components with an identical function and identical safety level. • Installation of safety devices that result in an increase in the safety level of the machine and do not allow for advanced features or functions. 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 159 Subject to change without notice 🏭 RESPONSIBILITY