of control systems — Part 1: General principles for design IEC 62061 Safety of machinery — Functional safety of safety-related electrical, electronic and programmable electronic control systems 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 1-5 Subject to change without notice Risk evaluation Risk assessment Risk evaluation process During the “risk evaluation,” it is defined, based on the results of The following chart shows one way of evaluating risk and the the risk estimation, whether the application of protective hierarchy of possible risk reduction measures . measu res is necessary and when the necessary risk reduction has been achieved . 1 Severity of Exposure Avoidance Risk reduction injury Not likely Frequent Hazard elimination or substitution Likely Serious Engineering controls Not likely preventing access Infrequent to the hazard, or stopping the hazard, Likely e.g., fixed guards, interlocked barrier Start guards, light curtains, safety mats, or other Not likely presence-sensing devices Frequent Likely Non-interlocked Slight barriers, clearance, procedures, and Not likely equipment Infrequent Awareness Likely means 1-6 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice ksir hgiH ksir woL Risk assessment Risk evaluation Documentation The risk assessment documentation shall include the proce- • A description of the protective measures applied dure applied and the results obtained, as well as the following • A description of the risk reduction objectives to be achieved information: using these protective measures • Information about the machine such as specifications, • The residual risks relating to the machine limits, intended use, etc . • All documents used and prepared during the risk • Important assumptions that have been made, such as loads, assessment strengths, safety coefficients, etc. • All hazards and hazardous situations identified and hazard- While various standards and directives, including the ous events considered Machinery Directive, require that a risk assessment be • Data used and their sources as well as the accident histo- performed, many do not require the risk assessment docu- ries and experience relating to risk reduction on comparable mentation be provided with the machine . However, machine machinery users may request the results of the risk assessment per- formed by the machine builder or integrator to maintain the overall effectiveness of risk control throughout the entire life cycle of the equipment, including future changes or modifications to the equipment or the associated process. Risk assessment Safexpert® Risk assessment Safexpert® Summary: Risk assessment General The risk assessment process • Perform a risk assessment for all hazards. This iterative • Start the risk assessment with the definition of the func- process must take into account all hazards and risks until tions of the machine . there are no residual risks or only acceptable residual • During the risk assessment take into account in particular risks remain . foreseeable misuse and faults . • Identify the tasks performed by affected personnel (opera- tors, maintenance personnel, etc .) . Take into account the 1 level of training, experience and other human factors, such as incentives to defeat protective measures . • Identify the hazards (mechanical, electrical, thermal, etc.) posed by the machine. Take into account these hazards in all phases of the service life of the machine . • Estimate the risks posed by the hazards. These depend on the extent of injury and the probability of occurrence of the harm . • Document the results of the risk assessment . 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 1-7 Subject to change without notice Risk assessment Notes Notes Risk assessment 1 1-8 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction The 3-step method Risk reduction The 3-step method Steps 2 to 4: Risk reduction If the risk evaluation showed that measures are necessary to reduce the risk, the 3-step method must be used. The 3-step method The following principles shall be applied during the selection of the measures, and in the order given: 1. Safe design: elimination or minimization of residual risks as far as possible (integra- tion of safety in the design and construction of the machine or process) 1 2. Technical protective measures: Take the necessary protective measures (engineer- ing controls) against risks that cannot be eliminated by design 3. Administrative measures to inform and warn about the residual risks Risk reduction by means of safe design End or next 2 Start g NOT WARRANT We refer only to the latest published regulations and standards ANY COMPLETENESS OF CONTENT, ACCURACY, OR VERIFICA- at the time of publishing. If, in the event of new standards, the TION OF THE CONTENTS, NOR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF use of the predecessor standard is permitted for a transition USAGE OF TRADE, COURSE OF DEALING OR COURSE OF PER- period, we have noted this situation in the relevant chapters of FORMANCE WITH RESPECT TO THIS SAFETY GUIDE. this guide. - In this guide, references to further standards and aids are marked with a blue arrow. 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK EE--33 Subject to change without notice Introduction Safeguarding the work process Safeguarding the work process Introduction Safeguarding the work process The requirements on the safeguarding of machinery have changed more and more with the increasing use of automa- tion. In the past, protective devices in the work process were something of a nuisance; for this reason, they were often not used at all. Innovative technology has enabled protective devices to be integrated into the work process. As a result, they are no longer a hindrance for the operator; in fact, they often even help productivity. For this reason, reliable protective devices integrated into the workplace are essential these days. Safety is a basic need Safety is a basic human need. Studies show that people con- The following objective can be derived from this situation: tinuously subjected to stressful situations are more suscep- • Operators and maintenance personnel shall be able tible to psychosomatic illnesses. Even though it is possible to to rely on the safety of a machine! adapt to extreme situations over the long term, they