your protective device. Do you need, for example, one or more electro-sensitive protective devices (ESPE), guards, movable guards or fixed position protective devices? • Determine the correct positioning and dimensions for each protective device, in particular the safety distance (minimum distance) and the necessary protective field size/height for the protective device concerned. • Integrate the protective devices as stated in the instruction handbook and as necessary for the level of safety. Logic units • Choose the correct logic unit based on the number of safety functions and the logic depth. • Use certified function blocks and keep your design clear. • Have the design and the documentation thoroughly checked (principle of counter checking by a second person). 3 c - All SICK products are listed in our online product finder at http://www.sickusa.com/ 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 3-77 Subject to change without notice Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Risk reduction § 1 2 3 c 3-78 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Technical protective measures Risk reduction Technical protective measures Step 3d: Verification of the safety function During verification, analyses and/or Essentially, verification involves two checks are carried out to demonstrate stages: that all aspects of the safety function • Verification of mechanical execution meets the objectives and requirements • Verification of functional safety of the specification. Verification of the mechanical design of the protective device 1 1 In the case of mechanical protective Containment of ejected parts and/or devices, the realization shall be checked radiation to ascertain whether the devices meet • Sufficient rigidity, impact resistance, requirements with regard to separation fracture strength (retention) or distancing from hazardous points • Sufficient retention for the prevailing and/or requirements with regard to the type of radiation, in particular where restraining of ejected parts or radiation. thermal hazards are concerned (heat, Particular attention should be paid to cold) compliance with ergonomic require- • Suitable mesh size or lattice spacing ments. for barriers • Sufficient rigidity and suitable 3 Separating and/or distancing effect 3 mounting • Sufficient safety distance and • Selection of suitable materials d dimensioning (reaching over, d • Safe design reaching under, etc.) • Resistance to aging • Suitable mesh size or lattice Ergonomic requirements spacing for barriers • Sufficient rigidity and suitable • See-through or transparency (so that mounting machine operation can be observed) • Selection of suitable materials • Setup, color, aesthetics • Safe setup • Handling (weight, actuation, etc.) • Resistance to aging • Protective device design so that climbing on it is not possible In this chapter ... Verification of mechanical design .......................3-79 Verification of functional safety ...3-81 Determining the performance level (PL) achieved as per ISO 13849-1 ..................3-81 Alternative: Determining the safety integrity level (SIL) achieved according to IEC 62061 .........3-89 Useful support.................3-93 Summary.....................3-94 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 3-79 Subject to change without notice Technical protective measures Risk reduction A thorough check of the effectiveness of a protective device can be undertaken using a checklist: Example: Checklist for the manufacturer or installer when installing protective devices (e.g., an ESPE) 1. Have adequate measures been taken to prevent access to the hazard zone or hazardous point and can Yes No the hazard zone or hazardous point only be accessed via secured areas (ESPE, protective doors with interlocking device)? 2. Have appropriate measures been taken to prevent (mechanical protection) or monitor unprotected Yes No presence in the hazard zone when protecting a hazard zone or hazardous point and have these been secured or locked to prevent their unauthorized removal? 1 1 3. Does the protective device conform to the reliability level (PL or SIL) required for the safety function? Yes No 4. Has the maximum stopping and/or run-down time of the machine been measured and has it been Yes No entered and documented (at the machine and/or in the machine documentation)? 5. Has the protective device been mounted such that the required safety or minimum distance from the Yes No nearest hazardous point has been achieved? 6. Is reaching under, reaching over, climbing under, climbing over, or reaching around the protective device Yes No effectively prevented? 7. Have the devices or switches been properly mounted and secured against manipulation after Yes No adjustment? 8. Are the required protective measures against electric shock in effect (protection class)? Yes No 3 3 9. Is the control device for resetting the protective device or restarting the machine present and correctly Yes No installed? d d 10. Are the components used for the protective devices integrated in accordance with the manufacturer’s Yes No instructions? 11. Are the given protective functions effective at every setting of the operating mode selector switch? Yes No 12. Are the protective devices effective for the entire duration of the dangerous state? Yes No 13. Once initiated, will a dangerous state be stopped when switching the protective devices off, when Yes No changing the operating mode, or when switching to another protective device? 14. Are the notes included with the protective device attached so they are clearly visible for the operator? Yes No 3-80 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Technical protective measures Verification of functional safety According to the standards for functional safety, the actual Both methods can be used to check whether the required level safety level shall match or exceed the required safety level. Two of safety can be achieved. The PFHd value is determined as the different methods are available here: corresponding quantitative measure. • Determining the performance level (PL) achieved according In both of the examples that follow (g 3-87 andg 3-90), sen- to ISO 13849-1 sor and logic data is available but actuator data is not. • Determining the safety integrity level achieved (SIL) accord- ing to IEC 62061 • Performance level (PL): Capability of safety-related com- 1 ponents to perform a safety function under foreseeable 1 conditions in order to achieve the expected reduction in risk • PFHd: Probability of