environment susceptibility are higher, but higher interference emissions are without introducing intolerable electromagnetic disturbances to also allowed. For this reason, components that meet radio fre- anything in that environment.” quency (RF) interference requirements for the industrial sector The machine and the components used shall be selected and may cause RF interference in residential areas. The following verified so that they are immune to the expected disturbances. table gives example minimum interference field strengths in 1 Increased requirements apply to safety components. various application areas. Electromagnetic interferences can be caused by: Typical minimum interference field strengths in the frequency range from 900 to 2000 MHz • Fast, transient, electrical disturbances (bursts) • Surge voltages, e.g., caused by lightning strikes to the grid • Electromagnetic fields Area of application Minimum interference field strength for immunity • High-frequency disturbance (neighboring cables) 2 • Electrostatic discharge (ESD) Entertainment electronics 3 V/m Household electrical appliances 3 V/m Information technology 3 V/m equipment Medical equipment 3 … 30 V/m Industrial electronics 10 V/m Safety components 10 … 30 V/m Vehicle electronics Up to 100 V/m Example: Typical distances from mobile phone systems for different field strengths Area of application 3 V/m 10 V/m 100 V/m Note Wireless home phone Approx. 1.5 m Approx. 0.4 m ≤ 1 cm Base station or hand-held unit Cell phone Approx. 3 m Approx. 1 m ≤ 1 cm Maximum transmission power (900 MHz) Cell base station Approx. 1.5 m Approx. 1.5 m Approx. 1.5 m Sender power approx. 10 W 2-12 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Safe design The following design rules will help to prevent EMC problems: • Continuous equipotential bonding by means of conductive • Keep screens short and use the full surface area connections between parts of machinery and systems • Connect any grounding/functional earth (FE) provided • Physical separation from the supply unit (power supply/ • Connect any available communication cables carefully. actuator systems/inverters) Twisted cables are often required to transmit data (fieldbus) • Do not use the screen to carry equipotential bonding currents Example: Connecting shield correctly Example: Providing equipotential bonding 1 2 Correct: Keep screens short and Incorrect: "Pigtails" use the full surface area Example: Physical separation Power section Control section Motors, actuators Mains Physical Solenoid valves Transducers, probes, separation detectors, sensor cables, bus cables - EMC standards: EN 61000-1 to -4 - EMC requirements on safety components: UL 61496-1, IEC 61496-1, IEC 62061 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 2-13 Subject to change without notice Safe design Risk reduction Fluid technology (hydraulic and pneumatic) Fluid technology is the generic term used for all processes by Fluid technology is applied in engineering in hydraulics (energy means of which energy is transmitted using gases or liquids. A transmission using hydraulic oils) and in pneumatics (transmis- generic term is used because liquids and gases behave simi- sion using compressed air). Oil-based hydraulics required a larly. Fluid technology describes processes and systems for the circuit for the fluid (feed and return), while in pneumatics the transmission of power using fluids in sealed pipe systems. waste air is discharged to the environment using acoustic at- tenuators. Subsystems Every fluid-related system comprises the following subsystems: Design principles 1 • Compressing: compressor/pump All parts of a fluid-related system are to be protected against • Conditioning: filters pressures that exceed the maximum operating pressure of a • Pumping: pipework/hoses subsystem or the rated pressure of a component. A hazard • Controlling: valve shall not be caused by leaks in a component or in the pipe- • Driving: cylinder work/hoses. Acoustic attenuators are to be used to reduce the Pressure is established in any fluid-related system by pumping noise caused by escaping air. The use of acoustic attenuators 2 the fluid against loads. If the load increases, the pressure also shall not produce any additional hazard, and shall not cause increases. any damaging back-pressure. - ISO 4413, Hydraulic fluid power — General rules and safety requirements for systems and their components - ISO 4414, Pneumatic fluid power — General rules and safety requirements for systems and their components 2-14 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Safe design Use in potentially explosive atmospheres Protection against explosions is a particularly safety-related task. People are placed at risk in the event of an explosion, 100 vol.-% Oxygen concentration 0 vol.-% e.g., due to uncontrolled radiation of heat, flames, pressure waves, and flying debris, as well as due to harmful reaction Mixture too weak: Explosive Mixture too strong: products and the consumption of the oxygen in the ambient air no self ignition atmosphere no explosion necessary for breathing. Explosions and fires are not among the most common causes of industrial accidents. However, their Explosion limits consequences are spectacular and often result in serious loss 0 vol.-% Concentration of flammable substance 100 vol.-% 1 of life and extensive economic damage. Where dust, inflammable gases, or liquids are manufactured, transported, processed, or stored, a potentially explosive atmo- sphere may be produced, i.e., a mixture of fuel and atmospher- ic oxygen within the limits for explosions. If a source of ignition is present, an explosion will occur. 2 Assessing the scope of the protective measures necessary For an assessment of the protective measures necessary, The information in the following table does not apply in the field potentially explosive atmospheres are categorized in “zones” of mining (open-cast, underground). based on the probability of the occurrence of a hazardous potentially explosive atmosphere, see Directive 1992/92/EC, Annex I. Zone definition For gases G Zone 2 Zone 1 Zone 0 For dust D Zone 22 Zone 21 Zone 20 Potentially explosive atmosphere Seldom, short duration Occasional Continuous, frequent, long (< 10/year) (10 -- 100 h/year) duration (> 1,000 h/year) Safety measure Normal High Very high Device category that can be used (ATEX) 1 II 1G/II 1D 2 II 2G/II 2D 3 II 3G/II 3D Marking Equipment must be designed, tested, and marked accordingly for use