a dangerous failure per hour • SILCL: SIL claim limit (suitability). Discrete level for defin- ing the integrity of the safety function. EN ISO 13849-1 EN 62061 Sensor Logic Actuator Sensor Logic Actuator 3 3 PFHd PFHd ? PL PL ? d SILCL SILCL ? d Determining the performance level (PL) achieved as per ISO 13849-1 ISO 13849-1 sets out two methods for determining perfor- method. For both methods, structural and systematic aspects mance level: relating to the achievement of the performance level shall also • Simplified method (g 3-82): be taken into account. Tabular determination of performance level based on the Subsystems performance levels of each subsystem A safety function that is implemented using control measures • Detailed method (g 3-82): generally comprises sensor, logic unit, and actuator. Such a Mathematical determination of performance level based chain can include, on the one hand, discrete elements such on the PFHd values of the subsystems (this method is only as guard interlocking devices or valves and complex safety described indirectly in the standard) controllers. As a rule, it is therefore necessary to divide a safety More realistic performance levels than those using the sim- function into subsystems. plified method can be determined by applying the detailed In practice, certified subsystems are already used in many ponent manufacturer. These values apply only for the mission cases for certain safety functions. These subsystems can be time to be specified by the manufacturer. In addition to the light curtains, for example, but also safety controllers, for which quantifiable aspects, it is also necessary to verify the measures "pre-calculated" PL or PFHd values are supplied by the com- against systematic failures. - More information about validation: ISO 13849-2 - Go to http://www.dguv.de/ifa/Praxishilfen/Maschinensteuerungen/index.jsp for comprehensive information about ISO 13849-1 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 3-81 Subject to change without notice Technical protective measures Risk reduction Simplified method This method allows the overall PL for many applications to be This method is based on mean values within the PFHd range of estimated with sufficient accuracy without knowing individual values for the various PL. Therefore, using the detailed method PFHd values. If the PL of all subsystems is known, the overall (see next section) may deliver more accurate results. PL achieved by a safety function can be determined using the following table. Procedure PL (low) n (low) PL • Calculate the PL of the subsystem or subsystems with the (lowest PL of a sub- (number of subsys- (maximum 1 lowest PL in a safety function: PL (low) system) tems with this PL) achievable PL) 1 • Determine the number of subsystems with this PL (low): > 3 – a n (low) ≤ 3 a Example 1: > 2 a b • All subsystems achieve a PL of e, the PL (low) is, therefore, ≤ 2 b e. > 2 b • The number of subsystems with this PL is 3 (i.e., ≤3). There- c ≤ 2 c fore, the overall PL achieved is e. > 3 c • According to this method, adding another subsystem with a d ≤ 3 d PL of e would reduce the overall PL to d. > 3 d Example 2: e ≤ 3 e 3 • One subsystem achieves a PL of d, two subsystems achieve 3 a PL of c. The PL (low) is, therefore, c. d • The number of subsystems with this PL is 2 (i.e., ≤2). There- d fore, the overall PL achieved is c. - If the PL is not known for all subsystems, the safety level can be determined as described in the section titled "Determining the safety level of a subsystem according to ISO 13849-1" below. Detailed method An essential – but not exclusive – criterion for determining the The manufacturer of a safety component may also have applied PL is the "probability of a dangerous failure per hour" (PFHd) of additional structural restrictions that must also be taken into the safety components. The resulting PFHd value is made up of account in the overall consideration. the sum of the individual PFHd values. - If the PFHd value is not known for all subsystems, its safety level can be determined. See "Determining the level of safety of a subsystem according to ISO 13849-1" below. Determining the level of safety for a subsystem as per ISO 13849-1 3-82 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice erutcurtS ytilibaileR sisongaiD ecnatsiseR ssecorP A safety-related subsystem can be formed from many different indi- vidual components which may even be made by different manufac- turers. Examples of such components include: Performance Level • Input side: 2 safety switches on a physical guard Cat. MTTFd DC CCF Test • Output side: 1 contactor and 1 frequency inverter to stop a dangerous movement In such cases, the PL for this subsystem must be determined separately. The performance level achieved for a subsystem is made up of the following parameters: • Structure and behavior of the safety function under fault conditions (category g 3-83) • MTTFd values of individual components (g3-84) • Diagnostic coverage (DC g 3-85) • Common cause failure (CCF g 3-91) • Software aspects that are relevant to safety • Systematic failures Risk reduction Technical protective measures Category of safety-related parts of control systems (ISO 13849-1) Subsystems are usually single-channel or dual-channel. Unless by introducing additional testing components or dual-channel additional measures are in place, single-channel systems re- systems supporting reciprocal testing. ISO 13849-1 defines spond to faults with a dangerous failure. Faults can be detected categories for classifying the structure of subsystems. Category Brief summary of requirements System behavior Principles for achieving safety B The safety-related parts of control • The occurrence of a fault can result in systems and/or their protective devices, the loss of the safety function. 1 1 as well as their components, must be designed, built, selected, assembled, and combined in compliance with appli- cable standards so that they are able to Primarily characterized by component tolerate anticipated