Machinery Directive contains a list of particularly hazardous machinery and also safety components; this list includes electro-sensitive protective equipment such as photoelectric safety switches and safety laser scanners. The “Essential health and safety requirements” in Annex I of the Machinery Directive must be met first. If applicable harmonized standards covering all relevant health and safety requirements are available for the machinery or safety components, the declaration of conformity can then be obtained in one of the following three ways: Self-certification by the standard procedure ° EC type examination by a notified body: A notified body tests whether the machine meets the relevant ° essential health and safety requirements applicable to the machinery or the safety component. On com‐ pliance with those requirements, the notified body issues an EC type examination certificate containing the results of the tests. Use of a full quality management system that has been assessed (QMS): The full QMS shall ensure ° conformity with the requirements of the Machinery Directive and be assessed by a notified body. The manufacturer is responsible for the effective and appropriate use of the QMS. See also Annex X of the Machinery Directive. If no applicable harmonized standards exist for the machinery safety function. One of the following measures must therefore be implemented: • The signal must be discretely wired to the safety-related logic unit. • The signal must be transmitted via a safety-related bus system. The reset shall not initiate any movement or hazardous situation. Instead, the machine control system shall only accept a separate start command after the reset. 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 111 Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION An exception to the application of reset and restart exists if protective devices are used that allow continu‐ ous detection of at-risk persons in the hazardous area (e.g., presence detection). Figure 93: In this arrangement, it is not possible to remain in the hazardous area without being detected by the protective device. Therefore, a separate reset of the protective device is not necessary. Integration of protective devices in the control system Along with mechanical aspects, a protective device must also be integrated in the control system. NOTE "Control systems are functional assemblies that form part of the information system of a machine and implement logical functions. They coordinate the flows of material and energy to the area of action of the tool and workpiece system in the context of a task. […] control systems differ in terms of the technology used, i.e., the information carriers, fluid, electrical and electronic control systems." Translation of text from: Alfred Neudörfer: Konstruieren sicherheitsgerechter Produkte, Springer-Verlag, Berlin u. a., ISBN 978-3-642-33889-2 (5th Edition 2013) The general term control system describes the entire chain of a control system. The control system comprises input elements, logic units, power control elements, and drive/actuator elements. Safety-related parts of the control system are designed to perform safety functions. For this reason special requirements are placed on their reliability and their resistance to errors. They are based on the principles of preventing and controlling faults. 112 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Table 47: Safety aspects of control systems with different operating principles. Translation of text from: Alfred Neudörfer: Konstruieren sicherheitsgerechter Produkte, Springer-Verlag, Berlin u. a., ISBN 978-3-642-33889-2 (5th Edition 2013) Controller Aspects relating to safety technology Principle of operation of the Typical devices Interfering factors Explanations control system Pneumatic • Multiway valves • Changes in energy levels Mostly designed as electro‐ • Vent valves • Purity and water content pneumatic control systems. • Manual shut-off valves of the compressed air Service unit necessary for • Filters with water trap conditioning compressed air. • Hoses Hydraulic • Accumulators • Purity Mostly designed as electrohy‐ Fluid • Pressure limiters • Viscosity draulic control systems. • Multiway valves • Temperature of the pres‐ Measures necessary to limit • Filter surized fluid the pressure and temperature in the system and to filter the • Level gages medium. • Temperature gages • Hoses and cables • Threaded fittings Electrome‐ • Control switches: • Protection class of the Due to their design and chanical Position switch devices unambiguous switch settings, ° Selector switches • Selection, sizing and parts are insensitive to ° arrangement of compo‐ moisture, temperature fluctu‐ Pushbuttons ° nents and devices ations, and electromagnetic • Switching amplifiers: • Design and routing of the disturbances if selected cor‐ Contactors cables rectly. ° Relay ° Circuit breakers ° Electronic • Individual components, for As listed under “Electrome‐ Exclusion of faults not possi‐ example: chanical”. ble. ° Transistors In addition: Reliable action can only be Resistors achieved using control system ° • Temperature fluctuations Capacitors concepts, not through the ° • Electromagnetic disturban‐ Electrical ° Coils ces coupled via cables or selection of components. • Highly integrated devices, fields for example integrated cir‐ cuits (IC) Microproces‐ • Microprocessors • Installation fault in the • Measures to prevent sor-controlled • Software hardware faults: • Systematic errors includ‐ ° Structured design ing common cause errors Program analysis ° • Programming faults Simulation ° • Handling faults • Measures to control faults: • Operating error Redundant hardware • Manipulation ° and software • Malware RAM/ROM test ° CPU test ° The safety-related input elements have been described above with the safety sensors (protective devices). For this reason only the logic unit and the power control elements are described below. Errors and failures in drive/actuator elements are normally excluded. Fluid control systems are often implemented as electropneumatic or electrohydraulic control systems. In other words, the electrical signals are converted to fluid energy by valves to move cylinders and other power control elements. 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 113 Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Logic units In a logic unit, different input signals are linked to output signals. Electromechanical, electronic, or programmable electronic components are