behavior of the safety function under fault conditions ("Structure and category of safety-related parts of controllers", page 132) • MTTF values of individual components ("Mean time to dangerous failure (MTTF )", page 133) D D • Diagnostic coverage ("Diagnostic coverage (DC)", page 134) • Common cause failure ("Common cause failure (CCF)", page 135) • Software aspects that are relevant to safety • Systematic failures erutcurtS ytilibaileR scitsongaiD ecnatsiseR ssecorP 3D – VERIFYING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Performance Level Cat. MTTF DC CCF Check D Figure 112: Aspects for determining the performance level of a subsystem Structure and category of safety-related parts of controllers Subsystems are usually single-channel or dual-channel. Unless additional measures are in place, single-channel systems respond to errors with a dangerous failure. Errors can be detected by introducing additional testing components or dual-channel systems supporting reciprocal testing. ISO 13849-1 defines categories for classifying the structure of subsystems: 132 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3D – VERIFYING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Table 53: Description of the categories according to ISO 13849-1 Category Brief summary of requirements System behavior Principles for achieving safety B The safety-related parts of con‐ • The occurrence of an error can trol systems and/or their protec‐ result in the loss of the safety tive devices, as well as their com‐ function. ponents, must be set up, built, selected, assembled, and com‐ bined in compliance with applica‐ ble standards so that they are Primarily characterized by compo‐ able to tolerate anticipated influ‐ nent selection encing factors. 1 The requirements of category B • The occurrence of an error can must be met. Well-tried compo‐ result in the loss of the safety nents and well-tried safety princi‐ function, but the probability of ples shall be used. occurrence is lower than in cat‐ egory B. 2 The requirements of category • The occurrence of an error can B shall be met and well-tried result in the loss of the safety safety principles used. The safety function between checks. function must be tested by the • The loss of the safety function machine controller at appropriate is detected by the test. intervals (test rate 100 times higher than demand rate). 3 The requirements of category B • When the single error occurs, shall be met and well-tried safety the safety function is always principles used. Safety-related retained. parts shall be designed so that: • Some, but not all errors are detected. • A single error in any of these • Accumulation of undetected parts will not lead to the loss errors may lead to loss of the of the safety function, and safety function. • Wherever it is reasonably Predominantly characterized by possible, the single error is the structure detected. 4 The requirements of category B • The safety function is always shall be met and well-tried safety retained when errors occur. principles used. Safety-related • The errors are detected in a parts shall be designed so that: timely manner to prevent the An single error in any of these loss of the safety function. parts will not lead to the loss of the safety function The single error is detected on or before the next request for the safety function or If this is not possible, an accumu‐ lation of errors will not lead to the loss of the safety function. Mean time to dangerous failure (MTTF ) D MTTF stands for Mean Time To Failure. From the point of view of ISO 13849-1, only dangerous failures need to be considered (hence the “D” for “dangerous” in MTTF ). D This value represents a theoretical parameter expressing the probability of a dangerous failure of a component (not the entire subsystem) within the lifetime of that component. The actual lifetime of the subsystem is always shorter. The MTTF value can be derived from the failure rates. Where: 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 133 Subject to change without notice • The B values apply to electromechanical or pneumatic components. Their maximum lifetime depends on 10 the wear and the switching frequency. B therefore indicates the number of switching cycles until 10% of the 10 components fail. • The B value is concerned with the dangerous failure of components (the “D” in B stands for “danger‐ 10D 10D ous”). The value indicates the number of switching cycles until 10% of the components fail dangerously. If the B value is not specified, it may generally be assumed that: B = 2 × B 10D 10D 10 • The failure rate λ applies to electronic components. Often the failure rate is given in FIT (Failures In Time). FIT=1 means one failure per 109 hours. ISO 13849-1 combines the MTTF values into ranges: D Table 54: Ranges of the MTTF value according to ISO 13849-1 D Designation Range Low 3 years ≤ MTTF < 10 years D Medium 10 years ≤ MTTF < 30 years D High 30 years ≤ MTTF < 100 years D The mean time to a dangerous failure in years (MTTF ) can be calculated for the overall system from the D component values. To avoid overrating the impact of reliability, the useful maximum value for the MTTF has been limited to D 100 years. ]%[ eruliaf suoregnad a fo ytilibaborP 100% Unacceptable MTTF D 80% Low MTTF D Medium MTTF D 60% 40% High MTTF D 20% 0% 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 Time [years] hcubdnaH AIGB :ecruoS 3D – VERIFYING THE SAFETY FUNCTION MTTF = 3 years D MTTF D = 10 years 63,2% MTTF D = 30 years MTTF D = 100 years Not considered Figure 113: Probability of dangerous failure as a function of the operating time Diagnostic coverage (DC) The level of safety can be increased if fault detection is implemented in the subsystem. The diagnostic coverage (DC) is a measure of the capability to detect dangerous errors. Poor diagnostics only detect a few errors, good diagnostics detect a large