of ejected parts, hazardous substances or radiation. Particular attention should be paid to compliance with ergonomic requirements. This is to ensure that the protective device provides the protection that meets the requirements. Separating and/or distancing effect • Sufficient safety distance and dimensioning (reaching over, reaching under, etc.) • Suitable mesh size or grid spacing for fence elements • Sufficient rigidity and suitable mounting • Selection of suitable materials • Safe setup • Resistance to aging • Design of the guard prevents climbing on the guard Restraining of ejected parts, hazardous substances or radiation • Sufficient rigidity, impact resistance, fracture strength (retention) • Sufficient retention for the prevailing type of radiation, in particular where thermal hazards are concerned (heat, cold) • Suitable mesh size or grid spacing for fence elements • Sufficient rigidity and suitable mounting • Selection of suitable materials • Safe setup • Resistance to aging Ergonomic requirements • Suitable transparency (so that machine operation can be observed) • Setup, color, aesthetics • Handling (weight, actuation, etc.) Verification of non-physical guards Depending on the type of non-physical guard (safety light curtains, pressure sensitive mats, ...), different system‐ atic properties must be verified. The effectiveness of a non-physical guard can be tested with the help of a checklist. 128 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3D – VERIFYING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Table 51: Example checklist for the manufacturer or equipment supplier when installing non-physical guards (e.g., an ESPE) Checklist 1 Have adequate measures been taken to prevent access to hazardous areas or hazardous points or can they only be accessed via safeguarded areas (ESPE, protective doors with Yes ⃞ No ⃞ interlocking device)? 2 Have appropriate measures been taken to prevent the undetected presence of persons in the hazardous area (mechanical protection) or to detect the presence of persons (protective Yes ⃞ No ⃞ devices), and have these devices been secured or locked to prevent their removal? 3 Do the protective devices conform to the required reliability level (PL or SIL) for the relevant Yes ⃞ No ⃞ safety functions? 4 Has the maximum overrun (stopping time) of the respective dangerous machine functions been measured and are these times specified and documented (either on the machine or in Yes ⃞ No ⃞ the operating instructions)? 5 Have the required safety or minimum distances of protective devices to the nearest hazard‐ Yes ⃞ No ⃞ ous points been maintained? 6 Have effective measures been taken to prevent reaching under, reaching over, climbing Yes ⃞ No ⃞ under, climbing over, or reaching around the protective devices? 7 Have the protective devices or switches been properly mounted and secured against manip‐ Yes ⃞ No ⃞ ulation after adjustment? 8 Are the required protective measures against electric shock in effect (protection class)? Yes ⃞ No ⃞ 9 Are the control switches for resetting protective devices present and located in such a way Yes ⃞ No ⃞ that they cannot be actuated from inside the hazardous of the Machinery Directive. • The manufacturer shall issue a declaration of incorporation. It describes which essential requirements of the Machinery Directive are applied and met. Technical documentation, similar to that for a machine, is to be prepared as appropriate and archived. • Instead of operating instructions, the manufacture shall prepare assembly instructions in the same manner and supply them with every “partly completed” machine. The language used in these assembly instructions can be agreed between the manufacturer and user (integrator). NOTE See also section "Test bodies", page 20. 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 15 Subject to change without notice § – LAWS, DIRECTIVES, STANDARDS EU conformity assessment procedure for machinery and safety components Is the machine or the safety component listed in Annex IV? No Yes Has full account been taken of harmonized standards? Yes No or none exist Standard procedure EC type-examination Comprehensive QMS according to Annex VIII according to Annex IX according to Annex X Internal manufacturing checks Declaration of conformity acc. to Annex II and CE mark acc. to Annex III (Article 16) Figure 8: Conformity assessment procedure according to Article 12 of the Machinery Directive 2006/42/EC Summary: Laws, directives As the manufacturer of a machine, among other requirements, the Machinery Directive applies to you: • You shall meet all essential health and safety requirements of the Machinery Directive. • You shall take account of safety integration during the design process. • For the declaration of conformity, you shall use either the standard procedure or the procedure for machinery in Annex IV of the Machinery Directive. • You shall compile a technical documentation file for the machine; in particular, this shall include all safety- related design documents. • You shall supply operating instructions with the product in an official language of areas? 10 Are the components used for the protective devices integrated in accordance with the Yes ⃞ No ⃞ manufacturer’s instructions? 11 Are the given safety functions effective at every setting of the operating mode selector Yes ⃞ No ⃞ switch? 12 Are the protective devices effective during the entire time in which the machine functions to Yes ⃞ No ⃞ be safeguarded are taking place? 13 Once initiated, will the dangerous machine functions be ceased when switching the pro‐ tective devices off or when changing the operating mode, or when switching to another Yes ⃞ No ⃞ protective device? 14 Are the instructions for the operator, that are supplied with the protective device, attached Yes ⃞ No ⃞ in a clearly visible manner? Verification of functional safety Machine-specific type-C standards and some type-B standards require a target level for safety functions. There are two different methods for determining the level of safety achieved: • Determining the performance level (PL) achieved as per ISO 13849-1 • Determining the safety integrity level achieved (SIL) according to IEC 62061 PL a b c d e ISO 13849-1 PFH SIL D 1 2 3 IEC 62061 Figure 109: Illustration of the relationship between