usually the specification. For example, access to a robot cell is to be safeguarded by a light curtain. The safety function is thus specified as follows: “If the protective field of a light curtain is interrupted, all hazardous machine functions shall cease as quickly as possible.” However, the designer shall also have considered restarting when the protective field becomes clear again, in particular if access can be gained to it by standing behind this field. The validation process shall uncover such aspects. As a rule, a validation process involves the application of a number of procedures that complement each other. (International Electrotechnical Commission) The International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) is a global organization that pre‐ pares and publishes international standards in the area of electrical technology (e.g., electronics, communications, electromagnetic compatibility, power generation), and related technologies. Types of standards There are three types of standards: Type-A Type-A standards, also called basic safety standards, contain basic terminology, principles of design and general aspects that can be applied to all machinery. Type-B Type-B standards, also called generic safety standards, address a safety aspect or protective device that can be used for a wide range of machinery. Type-B standards are in turn divided into: • Type-B1 standards on specific safety aspects, e.g., the electrical safety of machinery, the calculation of safety distances, requirements for control systems • Type-B2 standards on protective devices, e.g., two-hand control devices, physical guards and electro-sensitive protective equipment Type-C Type-C standards contain all safety requirements for a specific machine or a type of machine. If this standard exists, it has priority over the type-A or type-B standard. A type-C standard may, however, refer to a type-B or type-A standard. In all circumstances the requirements of the Machinery Directive shall be met. NOTE A list of important standards is provided in the annex (page 166). 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 17 Subject to change without notice § – LAWS, DIRECTIVES, STANDARDS Overview of protective devices, physical guards and associated standards Equipment of machines Safe design Electric IEC 60204-1 Risk assessment and risk reduction Hydraulic ISO 4413 ISO 12100 Pneumatic ISO 4414 Physical guards Safety distances for upper and lower limbs ISO 13857 Protective devices Distances to prevent crushing hazards ISO 13854 Minimum distances ISO 13855 ISO 14120 Prevention of unexpected start-up ISO 14118 Safety related parts of the control system ISO 13849-1/-2 Fixed Movable Sensing function These include the following procedures: • Technical inspection of the positioning and effectiveness of protective devices • Practical inspection of response to failure with regard to the expected results by means of simulations 146 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3E – VALIDATING ALL SAFETY FUNCTIONS • Validation of environmental requirements by means of functional tests: Sufficient protection against influencing factors from the environment (temperature, moisture, shock, ° vibration behavior, etc.) Sufficient resistance to interference from electromagnetic sources ° 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 147 Subject to change without notice 3F – FUNCTIONAL SAFETY AND CYBERSECURITY 3f – Functional safety and cybersecurity The increasing requirements for linking plants and machines of production facilities, and the data exchange via open interfaces required for this, opens up the possibility of intentional or an unintentional access to safety parameters and production-related data. This creates new challenges for information security and must be taken into account to prevent injury to persons or damage to machines and systems or the environment. Consequently, this necessitates an overall assessment of machine safety and information security aspects by component manufacturers, machine manufacturers, system integrators and plant operators. The overall assess‐ ment always starts with defining the limits of the machine (usage limits and spatial limits). The limits also include communication interfaces relevant to cybersecurity, both between humans and machines, between machines and the control system, and between machines. A risk assessment or hazard assessment is performed based on these limits. Based on the risk analysis, all sources of danger are analyzed and appropriate measures taken. Cybersecurity attacks do not create new hazards in terms of machine safety, but the effectiveness of protective measures can be negatively impacted or interrupted. For example, the system components associated with a safety requirement might not stop or speeds might not be reduced to the necessary level, creating hazards. Cybersecurity considerations are relevant to the following machines: • Machines with programmable controllers with electronic interfaces • Machines with programmable controllers with a network connection Machines with contact-based controls or machines with electronic but non-programmable controllers are not directly relevant to cybersecurity considerations. If electronically parameterizable components are integrated, hazards can in turn arise via the interface to the parameterization device. What measures are necessary to address the cybersecurity aspects of machine safety? Protective measures familiar from office communications or in the private sphere (firewall, virus scanner) are not sufficient for the industrial environment. A systematic approach is necessary. In general, the following applies to all participants operating in the value chain • the corporate culture and thus awareness within the company of the issue of cybersecurity must be suffi‐ ciently developed. • an appropriate safety management system must be installed. • the relevant knowledge must be up to date. • the necessary technologies with an appropriate level of IT security must be available. 148 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3F – FUNCTIONAL SAFETY AND CYBERSECURITY Figure 121: Review of the safety management in a production plant The following table summarizes the machine security related aspects that machine manufacturers, equipment manufacturers, system integrators, service providers, equipment and machine operators need to consider to prevent cybersecurity attacks: Table 58: Machine security related aspects that machine manufacturers, equipment manufacturers, system integrators, service providers, equipment/machine operators need to consider to prevent cybersecurity attacks Machine manufacturer Equipment manufacturer, system inte‐ Plant/machine operator grator, service provider Security risk assessment Security risk assessment Security threat assessment E.g., according to IEC TR63074. Identifi‐ E.g., according to IEC