differential. Safety-related design principles For the safety-related use of valves, feedback of the valve position may be necessary. Here various techniques are used: • Reed switches that are actuated by a magnet fixed into the moving valve body • Inductive proximity switches that are actuated directly by the moving switching element of the valve • Analog position detection of the moving switching element of the valve • Pressure measurement downstream of the valve In the case of electromagnetically actuated valves, like a contactor, the solenoid requires a suppressor. In terms of safety as defined in ISO 13849, valves are defined as power control elements. The failure of drives/work elements must also be considered according to the possible repercussions. Figure 107: Valve with position monitoring Filter concept The vast majority of failures of fluid control systems are due to disturbances related to contamination of the related fluid. The two main causes are: 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 123 Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION • Contamination that occurs during assembly = assembly contamination (e.g., chips, mold sand, fibers from cloths, basic contamination) • Contamination that occurs during operation = operating contamination (e.g., ambient contamination, compo‐ nent abrasion) These contaminations must be reduced to an acceptable degree with the aid of filters. For this purpose, a filter concept must be developed that defines the filter principle and its installation location. The filter concept must be designed so that it is able to retain in the filter the contamination added to the entire system in such a way that the required purity is maintained throughout the operating time. NOTE - Proven safety principles: ISO 13849-2 (type-B standard) - Safety-related requirements on hydraulic/pneumatic systems: ISO 4413, ISO 4414 - Aging process on hydraulic valves: BIA Report 6/2004 ISBN 3-88383-672-9 Safety-related pneumatics Electropneumatic control systems use a logic unit to implement safety functions. The logic unit provides electrical signals that act on the drive/actuators via a combination of a number of valves; these valves act as power control elements. Typical safety-related functions can be allocated to a machine’s operating modes as safety sub-functions. Purely pneumatic control systems exist alongside electropneumatic control systems. The advantage of these solutions is that the deterministic nature of the pneumatics makes it relatively easy to set up safety sub-functions that are purely pneumatic. 124 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Aerate Hold pressure Pressure and Vent force reduction Initial setting, standstill Setup and Normal operation service mode Two-hand Protection against operation tampering, protection against Emergency operation unexpected starting Reduction in Switch to Stop, hold, block Reverse the speed zero force the movement movement Direct pneumatic effect on movement Indirect pneumatic effect on movement Source: Festo SE & Co. KG – Safety Technology Guidelines Figure 108: Control circuit with pneumatic safety sub-functions 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 125 Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Overview of safety technology products Table 50: Products for functional safety from SICK Sensors Logic Power control elements Electro-sensitive protective equipment Safety light curtains Electrical drives with element safety sub-functions 1) Safety camera systems Multiple light beam safety devices Safety relays Safety pneu-matic valves2) Single-beam safety devices Safety laser scanners Safety multibeam Contactors3) scanner Interlocking devices With seperate Safety controllers and actuator Motion Control Frequency Inverters4) With actuator for locking devices Brakes2) For switching cam, turning lever Magnetically coded Pneumatic RFID coded Valves 1) Inductive Safe sensor cascade Emergency stop pushbutton enabling Hydraulic switch Valves 1) Motor feedback system, encoder Photoelectric switches, magnetic and induc- tive sensors Service solutions fromSICK With the approval of: 1) Bosch Rexroth AG, 2) FESTO SE & Co. KG, 3) Eaton Industries GmbH, 4) SEW-EURODRIVE GmbH & Co. KG. 126 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION NOTE - All SICK products and service solutions are listed in our online product finder at www.sick.com. Summary: Designing the safety function General • Develop a concept for the required safety functions. In this concept, consider the characteristics of the machine, design, surroundings, protective device, and also take into account human characteristics. • Design appropriate safety functions for the required safety level. Safety functions comprise sensor, logic, and power control element subsystems. • Determine the safety level of each subsystem based on safety aspects (structure, reliability, diagnostics, resistance, process conditions). Properties and application of protective devices • Determine the necessary properties for your protective device. Do you need, for example, one or more elec‐ tro-sensitive protective devices (ESPE), physical guards, movable physical guards or position fixing protective devices? • Determine the correct positioning and dimensions for each protective device, in particular the safety distance (minimum distance) and the necessary protective field size/height for the protective device concerned. • Integrate the protective devices as stated in the instruction handbook and as necessary for the level of safety. Logic units • Choose a suitable logic unit based on the number of safety functions and the logic depth. • Use certified function blocks and keep your design clear. • Have the design and the documentation thoroughly checked (principle of counter checking by a second person). 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 127 Subject to change without notice 3D – VERIFYING THE SAFETY FUNCTION 3d – Verifying the safety function During verification, analyses and/or checks are carried out to demonstrate that the safety function meets the objectives and requirements of the specification in all aspects. Verification essentially involves the following: • Verification of physical guards • Verification of functional safety • Verification of the design of non-physical guards Verification of physical guards In the case of physical guards, the design must be checked to ascertain whether the devices meet requirements with regard to separation or distancing from hazardous points and/or requirements with regard to the restraining