a lift on an automobile production line c Monitoring of rotation, speed, overrun Encoders or travel measurement systems are used to detect and evaluate rotation, speed, and overrun. The signals from encoders can be used in automated guided vehicles to adapt the protective field size of safety laser scan- ners to the speed at which the vehicles are moving. Safe standstill or rotation evaluation modules monitor the movement of drives using sensors or rotary encoders to generate a safe control signal at standstill or on deviation from preset parameters. If safety-related requirements are more stringent, either safety encoders or redundant encoders shall be used. Another possibility is to monitor the voltage induced by residual magnetism on a motor that is spinning down. Speed monitoring for protective field switching on an automated guided vehicle 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 3-41 Subject to change without notice Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Risk reduction Mats and floors, edges and bars, bumpers and plates In some applications, pressure sensitive protective devices can The usual electromechanical systems are available in various § be useful. The principle of operation is based in the majority of designs. cases on the elastic deformation of a hollow body that ensures Correct mechanical layout and integration is imperative in all an internal signal generation (electromechanical or optical) cases for an effective protective function. The detection of chil- which initiates the safety function. dren with body weights less than 20 kg is not addressed in the product standards for pressure-sensitive mats and floors. 1 Short circuiting designs (energize to trip principle) Positive opening contact design 4-wire version Resistance version (de-energize to trip principle) Control sysCteomntrol system Control sysCteomntrol system Control system 2 3 c Here, the activation of the protective device triggers a short-circuit. In the case of the 4-wire This design is more universal and offers more version, a circuit is short-circuited (a few Ohms). In the case of the resistance version, a advantages. As on a safety switch, a switch change from a set resistance (a few kOhms) is detected. These designs require more complex contact is opened on activation of the protec- evaluation. tive device. A short-circuit can be excluded by proper cabling or shielding. ➜ Requirements of pressure sensitive protective devices: ANSI B11.19, RIA TR R15.406, CSA Z432, ISO 13856 series (B-type standards) Foot switches (when not used for emergency stop) Foot switches are used to control work processes. On some Some international standards include additional requirements, machines (e.g., presses, punches, bending and metal working such as: machines) the use of foot switches for safety functions is only • A 3-position design similar to the enabling switch principle permitted in separate operating modes and only in conjunction (see “Principle of operation of the 3-position enabling with other technical protective measures (e.g., slow speed). device” - 3-40) However, in these cases, specific design requirements must be • A means of manual reset upon actuation of the actuator met: beyond the pressure point • A protective cover to protect against unintentional actuation • Evaluation of at least one normally open contact and one • After the hazardous machine function has been stopped, normally closed contact restarting via the foot switch is only permitted after releasing and actuating the foot switch again • If there are several operators, each shall actuate a separate switch - Requirements for foot switches: NFPA 79 3-42 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Complementary protective measures If necessary, provisions must be made for further protective • Preventive measures for easy and safe handling of ma- measures which are neither inherently safe designs or techni- chines and heavy parts cal precautionary measures. • Measures for safe access to machinery These might include: If these complementary measures are dependent upon the correct function of the corresponding control components, the • Emergency stop devices (g 3-7) "safety functions" and the requirements with regard to func- • Measures to free and rescue people who have become tional safety shall be met (see section “Design of the safety trapped function” g 3-13). • Measures for isolating and dissipating hazardous energy (g 2-10) Actions in an emergency Emergency stop (shut down in an emergency) Reset after emergency stop In an emergency it is not just necessary to stop all danger- If a device for use in an emergency is actuated, devices trig- ous movements, sources of energy that produce hazards, e.g. gered by this action shall remain in the off state until the device stored energy shall be safely dissipated. This action is termed for use in an emergency has been reset. “emergency stop.” The reset of the emergency device shall be done manually at • Emergency stop devices shall be easy to reach and be ac- the specific location. The reset shall only prepare the machine cessible from all directions. to be put back in operation and not restart the machine. • Emergency stop devices shall end a dangerous state as Emergency stop and emergency switching off are addition- 3 quickly as possible without producing additional risks. al measures but are not a means for the reduction of risks • The emergency stop command shall have priority over all c related to hazards on machinery. other functions and commands in all operating modes. • Resetting the emergency stop device shall not trigger a restart. Requirements and forms of implementation • The principle of direct actuation with mechanical latching The contacts on the emergency stop device shall be positive function shall be applied. opening normally closed contacts. The emergency stop device • The emergency stop shall be made as per stop Category 0 shall be red and any background shall be yellow. Examples: or 1. • Switches actuated with mushroom head pushbuttons Emergency switching off • Switches actuated with wires, ropes or rails If there is a possibility of hazards or damage due to electrical • Foot switches without covers (for emergency stop) power, emergency switching off should