Zone 20 Explosive atmosphere Seldom, short duration Occasional Continuous, frequent, long duration (< 10/year) (10 -- 100 h/year) (> 1,000 h/year) Safety measure Normal High Very high Device category that can be used (ATEX) 1 II 1G/II 1D 2 II 2G/II 2D 3 II 3G/II 3D Labels Equipment must be designed, tested, and suitably marked for use in these zones in accordance with the ATEX Product Directive 2014/34/EU. 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 39 Subject to change without notice 2 SAFE DESIGN (INHERENTLY SAFE DESIGN) Table 15: Marking of equipment for use in zones with explosive atmospheres II 2G Ex ia IIC T4 Example: Marking of an item of equipment as per ATEX Temperature class Can be used at ignition temperature > 135 °C Explosive group Acetylene, carbon disulfide, hydrogen Protection principle i = intrinsically safe a = two-fault-safe Device category (ATEX) Can be used in zone 1 Equipment group Not for use in areas where there is a risk of firedamp Explosion protection marking NOTE - ATEX Operational Directive: 1999/92/EC - ATEX Product Directive: 2014/34/EU - Standard: EN 1127-1 Explosive atmospheres - Explosion prevention and protection - Part 1: Basic concepts and methodology - Standard: EN IEC 60079-0 Explosive atmospheres - Part 0: Equipment - General requirements Summary: Safe design Mechanics, electronics, operation • The most effective and important measure is safe design to prevent hazards from occurring in the first place. • Design so that the operators are exposed to the hazardous area as little as possible. • Avoid dangers produced directly due to electrical power (direct and indirect contact) or produced indirectly due to faults in the control system. Stopping • Plan a control device for stopping the machine in normal operation. EMC • Design machines that meet applicable EMC requirements. The components used must be selected and verified so as to meet the following criteria: Comply with electromagnetic disturbance limits to not interfere with other equipment or devices ° Ensure immunity to the expected disturbances ° Comply with limit values for the area of application ° 40 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3 – TECHNICAL PROTECTIVE MEASURES 3 – Technical protective measures A technical protective measure is implemented by means of one or more safety functions. Each safety function comprises at least one protective device. There are three types of protective devices: • Mechanical protective devices that retain parts, substances, or radiation or permanently prevent entry/ access. • Protective devices that are integrated into the controller of the machine to initiate the safe state as soon as persons or parts of the human body are detected. • Protective devices that are integrated into the controller of the machine to initiate the safe state as soon as the monitored safety-related limits of machine parameters (position, speed, force, etc.) are exceeded. All these protective devices implement safety functions, but not every protective device has to be integrated into the machine controller for this purpose. Fixed physical guards (fences, barriers, covers), for example, are not integrated into the machine controller but if designed correctly, such guards fulfill the requirement of the safety function. Functional safety When protective devices are integrated into the machine controller, the risk reduction relies on the correct functioning of the controller. In this case, we refer to this as functional safety. When implementing functional safety, the required safety level must be determined for each safety function. The requirements of each particular protective measure must be implemented using suitable components. Validation The validation of all technical protective measures ensures that the safety functions reliably reduce the risk. The design of technical protective measures and safety functions and the methodology for their implementation in the control system form the content of the next chapter (sub-steps 3a to 3e). 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 41 Subject to change without notice 3 – TECHNICAL PROTECTIVE MEASURES Definition of the safety functions Determination of the required safety level Design the safety function Technology, selection and use of protective devices Positioning and sizing of protective devices Integration of protective devices in the control system Verification of the safety functions Validation of all safety functions Figure 18: From definition to validation of the safety functions 42 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3A – DEFINING THE SAFETY FUNCTIONS 3a – Defining the safety functions The safety functions describe how risks are reduced by protective measures. At least one safety function must be defined for each hazard that has not been eliminated by the design. It is necessary to precisely describe the safety function in order to achieve the required safety with reasonable effort. The type and number of components required for the function are derived from the definition of the safety function. NOTE - Examples for the definition of safety functions: IFA Report 2/2017, “Functional safety of machine controls” Permanently preventing entry/access Access to a hazardous point is prevented by means of mechanical covers, barriers, or obstacles (referred to as physical guards). Examples: • Prevention of direct access to hazardous points using covers (see figure) • Distancing protective devices (e.g., tunnels) to pre‐ vent access to the hazardous points and allow the passage of materials or goods (see figure) • Prevention of access to hazardous areas using physical guards Figure 19: Preventing access to the hazardous point in a packaging machine by means of a tunnel 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 43 Subject to change without notice 3A – DEFINING THE SAFETY FUNCTIONS Temporarily preventing access Access to a hazardous point is prevented until the machine is in a safe state. Examples: • On request, a machine stop is initiated. When the machine reaches the safe state, the blocking of access by the safety locking device is released. • After disconnecting the power, a transfer key that allows access (opening the movable physical guard) is enabled. Figure 20: