i.e., the presumption the machine meets the requirements of the directive. In other words, if you select and apply the right standards for your machine or system, you can assume that you will meet the legal requirements. In specific cases the obligations on the manufacturer can go beyond the content of the standards if, for example, a standard no longer reflects the state of the art. • There are type-A standards (basic safety standards), type-B standards (generic safety standards), and type-C standards (standards on the safety of machinery). If a type-C standard exists, it has priority over the type-A or type-B standard. Test bodies, insurance providers and market surveillance Test bodies Test bodies providing safety advice Companies that want to know whether their machines are compliant with the applicable European directives and standards can obtain advice on safety aspects. Accredited test bodies Accredited test bodies are test bodies that certify compliance with the test procedures and test criteria from recognized national institutions. These test bodies may include institutions for occupational safety and health which generally employ highly competent specialists. Notified bodies Each EU member state has the obligation to nominate test bodies as per the minimum requirements defined in the Machinery Directive, and to notify the European Commission in Brussels of these test bodies for listing. Only these test bodies are authorized to perform EU-type examinations and to issue EU type examination certifi‐ cates for the machinery and safety components listed in Annex IV of the Machinery Directive. Not all notified test bodies can test every type of product or machine. Many test bodies are only notified for specific areas. Insurance providers Berufsgenossenschaften (statutory OSH insurance bodies)/IFA – Institute for Occupational Safety and Health of the German Social Accident Insurance In Germany, the Berufsgenossenschaften and other organizations cover the legal accident insurance obligation. The Berufsgenossenschaften are organized by branches so that specific requirements in the individual sectors of the economy can be better met. 20 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice § – LAWS, DIRECTIVES, STANDARDS Insurance companies Many insurance companies have departments that offer expert specialist advice, particularly in relation to the prevention of liability risks that may result from ignorance or failure to comply with legal requirements. Market surveillance In the states of the EU and EFTA, work safety and market surveillance are the responsibility of national authorities. • In Germany, this is the responsibility of the “Länder” agencies for occupational health and safety. • Austria has a range of occupational safety inspectorates. Machine manufacturers can also contact national authorities for expert advice in relation to questions about the safety of machinery and safety at work. • In Switzerland, market supervision is the responsibility of the State Secretariat for Economic Affairs (SECO). The Swiss National Accident Insurance Fund (Suva), noted for its high levels of technical expertise, is responsible for enforcement. NOTE Important addresses can be found in the annex in section "Useful links", page 168. 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 21 Subject to change without notice 1 – Risk assessment When designing a machine, the possible risks must be assessed and, where necessary, protective measures must be applied to protect the operator from any hazards that may still be present. The process of risk assessment supports the machine manufacturer in this task. A risk assessment is a sequence of logical steps that facilitate the systematic analysis and evaluation of risks. The results of the risk assessment must be taken into account when designing and constructing the machine (risk reduction). The risk assessment should help to reduce or avoid risks. As a consequence it may identify necessary measures to protect the operator from hazards. If necessary, the risk assessment process must be repeated several times. The first process steps are intended to identify and assess hazards. This is followed by an evaluation and, if necessary, risk mitigation. If the measure triggers a new hazard, the repeated risk assessment reveals this. Being machine-related and application-specific, the risk assessment is already specified in many type-C standards. If this is not the case or not applicable, the requirements of the type-A and type-B standards can be used. NOTE - Safe design, risk assessment and risk reduction type-A standard: ISO 12100 The risk assessment process Start 00121 OSI NE htiw ecnadrocca ni tnemssessa ksiR 1 – RISK ASSESSMENT Functions of the machine (definition of limits) Identification of hazards Risk estimation Risk assessment Yes (has the risk been End reasonably reduced?) No Risk reduction Figure 10: Risk assessment process NOTE • The process shall be performed for all hazards. It must be repeated (iterative process) until the remaining residual risk is acceptably low. • The results achieved during the risk assessment and the procedure applied shall be documented. Functions of the machine (definition of limits) The risk assessment starts with the definition of the functions of the machine. These may include: 22 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 1 – RISK ASSESSMENT • The specification for the machine (what is produced, maximum production performance, materials to be used) • Physical limits and expected location • Planned service life • The intended functions and operating modes • The malfunctions and disruptions to be expected • The people involved in the machine process • The products related to the machine • Intended use but also the unintentional actions of the operator or the reasonably foreseeable misuse of the machine Reasonably foreseeable misuse Reasonably assumable, unintentional actions of the operator or foreseeable misuse may include: • Loss of control of the machine by the operator (particularly on hand-held or portable machinery) • Reflex actions by individuals in the event of a malfunction, a fault, or a failure during the use of the machine • Human error due to lack of concentration or carelessness • Human error due to the selection of the “path of least resistance” in the performance of a task •