indirect contact • Dangers arising from situations indirectly due to faults in the control system - In the following sections you will find important information on the design of the electrical equipment. - Electrical safety standards: NFPA 70, NFPA 70E, NFPA 79, CSA Z462, NR-10, IEC 60204-1 2-4 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Safe design Electrical power supply connection The electrical power supply connection is the interface between the electrical equipment in the machine and the supply grid. The stipulations from the utility concerned are to be followed for the connection. A stable power supply is particularly important in safety-related applications. For this reason, the voltage supplies should be able to withstand brief power failures. 1 Earthing system The earthing system characterizes both the type of connec- tion on the secondary side of the supply transformer to earth and the type of earthing for the electrical equipment’s chassis. TN system Three earthing systems are standardized internationally: The TN system is the most common form of network in low volt- • TN system age systems. In the TN system the transformer’s star point is 2 • TT system directly connected to earth (system earthing); the chassis of the • IT system equipment connected are connected to the transformer’s star Earthing is an electrically conductive connection to the earth. point via the protective conductor (PE). A differentiation is made between protective earthing (PE), Depending on the wire cross-section laid, PE and N cables are which is related to electrical safety, and functional earthing laid as a common cable (TN-C system) or as two independent (FE), which is used for other purposes. The protective conduc- cables (TN-S system). tor system comprises earth electrodes, connecting cables, and the related terminals. For equipotential bonding, all chassis of TT system electrical equipment on the power supply must be connected In a TT system the supply transformer’s star point is earthed to the protective conductor system. Equipotential bonding is a as in a TN system. The protective conductor connected to the basic means of protection in the event of a fault. electrically conductive equipment housing is not laid to this star point, but is earthed separately. The chassis of the equipment L1 can also be earthed using a common protective earth elec- L2 trode. L3 N TT systems are usually only used in connection with residual PE current circuit breakers. The advantage of the TT system lies in its increased reliability Fuse for remote areas. IT system The conductive equipment housings are earthed in an IT sys- tem as in a TT system, but the supply transformers star point Wire marking is not earthed in the same way. Systems on which shutdown Protective conductor involves a certain degree of danger which, therefore, are not connection to be shut down on the occurrence of only a fault to chassis or Housing earth are designed as IT systems. Equipotential bonding IT systems are stipulated in the low voltage area (to supply Power supply isolation device power to operating theaters and intensive care stations in hospitals, for example). - Protective measures: IEC 60364-4-41, with varying national amendments - Similar requirements can be found in NFPA 79 Power supply isolation devices A power supply isolation device must be provided for every • Circuit breaker power supply connection to one or more machines. It must be • Plug/socket combination up to 16 A/3 kW able to isolate the electrical equipment from the power supply: Certain circuits such as control circuits for interlocks do not • Power circuit breaker for usage category AC-23B or DC-23B need to be shut down by the isolation device. In this case spe- • Isolating switch with auxiliary contact for leading load shed- cial precautions must be taken to ensure the safety of opera- ding tors. 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 2-5 Subject to change without notice Safe design Risk reduction Protection against electric shock Protection classes Safety extra-low voltage SELV/PELV Categorization in different protection classes indicates the AC voltages up to 50 Vrms and DC voltages up to 120 V are al- means by which single-fault safety is achieved. This categoriza- lowed as safety extra-low voltages. Above a limit of 75 V DC, the tion does not provide an indication of the level of protection. requirements of the Low Voltage Directive shall also be met. In the case of applications in normally dry rooms, it is not Protection class I necessary to provide protection against direct contact (basic All devices with simple insulation (basic insula- protection) if the rms value of the AC voltage does not exceed tion) and a protective conduction connection are in 1 25 V or the harmonic-free DC voltage does not exceed 60 V. protection class I. The protective conductor must be connected to a terminal marked with the earthing Freedom from harmonics is obtained by superimposing a sinu- symbol or PE and be green-yellow. soidal AC portion of at least 10% rms on the DC voltage. Protection class II The safety extra-low voltage circuit shall be safely separated Equipment in protection class II has increased from other circuits (adequate air and creepage distances, insu- insulation or double insulation and is not connected to the protective conductor. This protective measure lation, connection of circuits to the protective conductor, etc.). 2 is also known as protective insulation. There shall be A differentiation is made between: no connection of a protective conductor. • SELV (safety extra-low voltage) Protection class III • PELV (protective extra-low voltage) Equipment in protection class III operates with a safety extra-low voltage and, therefore, does not A safety extra-low voltage shall not be generated from the require any explicit protection. mains using autotransformers, voltage dividers, or series resistors. ELV (AC < 50 V , DC < 120 V) rms SELV PELV Type of isolation Power sources Power sources with safe isolation, e.g., a safety transformer or equivalent power sources Circuits • Circuits with safe isolation from other non-SELV or non-PELV