performance level and safety integrity level Both methods can be used to check whether the required level of safety has been achieved. The PFH value is D determined as a quantitative measure for this purpose. In both examples (see figure 110), sensor and logic data is available but power control element data is not. 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 129 Subject to change without notice 3D – VERIFYING THE SAFETY FUNCTION NOTE • Performance level (PL): Capability of safety-related components to perform a safety function under foreseea‐ ble conditions in order to achieve the expected reduction in risk • PFH : Probability of a dangerous failure per hour D • SIL: Discrete level for defining the integrity of the safety function. ISO 13849-1 IEC 62061 Power Power Sensor Logic control Sensor Logic control elements elements PFH PFH ? PL PL ? D D SIL SIL ? Figure 110: Subsystems of a safety function and parameters for determining the safety level according to ISO 13849-1 and IEC 62061 Determining the achieved Performance Level (PL) Subsystems A safety function that is implemented using control measures generally comprises sensor, logic unit, and power control elements. Such a chain can include discrete elements such as guard interlocking devices or valves, but also complex safety controllers. Safety functions are therefore often divided into subsystems to reduce complexity. In practice, pre-certified subsystems are often used for safety functions. PL or PFH values are provided by the D manufacturer for these subsystems, e.g., for a safety light curtain or a safety controller. These values apply only for the mission time to be specified by the manufacturer. In addition to the quantifiable aspects, it is also necessary to verify the measures against systematic failures. Sensors Logic unit Power control elements N N Encapsulated subsystem Encapsulated subsystem N N N Assembled subsystem Assembled subsystem Figure 111: Encapsulated and assembled subsystems of a safety function ESPE Electro-sensitive protective equipment PDS(SR) Adjustable speed electrical power drive system (PDS) providing safety sub-functions 130 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3D – VERIFYING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Diagnostic measures ISO 13849-1 sets out two methods for determining performance level: • Simplified method (see "Simplified procedure according to ISO 13849-1", page 131): Tabular determination of performance level based on the performance level of each subsystem • Detailed method (see "Detailed procedure according to ISO 13849-1", page 132): Calculation of the perform‐ ance level based on the PFH values of the subsystems. (This method is only described indirectly in the D standard). More realistic performance levels than those using the simplified method can be determined by applying the detailed method. For both methods, structural and systematic aspects relating to the achievement of the perform‐ ance level must also be taken into account in addition to the quantitative assessments. NOTE - More information about validation: ISO 13849-2 - You will find a large amount of information on verification using ISO 13849-1 at www.dguv.de/ifa/13849 Simplified procedure according to ISO 13849-1 This method also allows the overall PL for many applications to be estimated with sufficient accuracy without knowing individual PFH values. If the PL of all subsystems is known, the overall PL achieved by a safety function D can be determined using the following table. This method is based on mean values within the PFH value ranges for the different PLs. Therefore, using the D detailed method (see next section) may deliver more accurate results. Table 52: Table from ISO 13849-1 for determining the total PL based on the simplified method PL (low) n (low) PL (lowest PL of a subsystem) (number of subsystems with this (Maximum achievable PL) PL) a > 3 → – ≤ 3 → a b > 2 → a ≤ 2 → b c > 2 → b ≤ 2 → c d > 3 → c ≤ 3 → d e > 3 → d ≤ 3 → e Procedure • Determine the PL of the subsystem(s) with the lowest PL in a safety function: PL (low) • Determine the number of subsystems with this PL (low): n (low) Example 1: • All subsystems achieve PL “e”, so the lowest PL (low) is “e”. • The number of subsystems with this PL is 3 (i.e., ≤ 3). Therefore, the overall PL achieved is “e”. • According to this method, adding another subsystem with a PL of “e” would reduce the overall PL to “d”. 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 131 Subject to change without notice Example 2: • One subsystem achieves PL “d”, two subsystems achieve PL “c”. The lowest PL (low) is, therefore, “c”. • The number of subsystems with this PL is 2 (i.e. ≤ 2). Therefore, the overall PL achieved is “c”. This method is based on mean values within the PFH value ranges for the different PLs. Therefore, using the D detailed method (see next section) may deliver more accurate results. NOTE - If the PL is not known for all subsystems, their safety level can be determined (see "Determining the safety level of a subsystem", page 132). Detailed procedure according to ISO 13849-1 An essential – but not exclusive – criterion for determining the PL is the “probability of a dangerous failure per hour (PFH )” of the safety components. The resulting PFH value is the sum of the individual PFH values. D D D Determining the safety level of a subsystem If the PFH value is not known for all subsystems, then their safety level can be determined. Subsystems can D consist of several components, even from different manufacturers. Examples of components in subsystems: • Input side: 2 safety switches on a physical guard • Output side: 1 contactor and 1 frequency inverter to stop a dangerous movement For these subsystems with multiple components, the PL must be determined separately. The performance level achieved for a subsystem is made up of the following parameters: • Structure and