Safe monitoring functions: These functions are used for the safe monitoring of the drive during operation (e.g., safely reduced speed). In general, the drive monitoring functions necessary depend on the application. Boundary conditions include parameters such as the necessary braking distance, the presence of kinetic energy, etc. The shutdown response varies depending on the selected safety sub-function. For example, on a stop request, safe torque off (STO) results in uncontrolled coasting down of the movement. During a safe stop (SS1 or SS2), controlled retardation is initiated. A combination of element functions may also need to be implemented as a suitable measure. Possible interfaces for the implementation of safety sub-functions integrated directly in the drive are: • Discrete 24-V signals • Control communication (channel 1)/24 V discrete (channel 2) • Safe communication systems (field-bus systems/network interface) In control communication, a setpoint for speed or position is transmitted from the standard controller to the drive; via a non-safety fieldbus or a network. The majority of safety sub-functions for variable speed drives available today are specified in the harmonized standard IEC 61800-5-2 “Adjustable speed electrical power drive systems”, Part 5-2 “Safety requirements – Functional safety”. Drives that meet this standard can be used as safety-related parts of a control system in accordance with ISO 13849-1 or IEC 62061. 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 121 Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Safety functions of servo drives according to IEC 61800-5-2 Table 49: Safety functions of servo drives according to IEC 61800-5-2. Source: Bosch Rexroth AG Safe torque Off (STO) Safe maximum speed (SMS) 1 • Corresponds to stop category 0 according • Safe monitoring of the maximum speed to IEC 60204-1 independent of the operating mode • Uncontrolled stopping by means of imme‐ diate interruption of the supply of power to the actuators • Safe restart interlock: prevents unex‐ pected starting of the motor Safe stop 1 (SS1) 2 Safe braking and holding system (SBS) 1 • Corresponds to stop category 1 according • The safe braking and holding system to IEC 60204-1 controls and monitors two independent • Controlled stopping while maintaining the brakes. supply of power to the actuators • After stopping or below a speed limit: Activation of the STO function • Optional: Monitoring of a brake ramp Safe stop 2 / safe operating stop (SS2, Safe door locking (SDL) 1 SOS) 2 • The door lock is only unlocked if all drives • Corresponds to stop category 2 according in a protected area are in the safe state. to IEC 60204-1 • Controlled stopping while maintaining the supply of power to the actuators • After standstill: Safe monitoring of the drive shaft position in defined range Safely-limited speed (SLS) Safely limited increment (SLI) • If an enable signal is given, a safely • If an enable signal is given, a safely lim‐ reduced speed is monitored in a special ited increment is monitored in a special operating mode. operating mode. • If the speed is exceeded, a safe stop • Then the drive is stopped and remains in function is triggered. this position. Safe direction (SDI) Safely monitored deceleration (SMD) 1 • In addition to the safe movement, a safe • Safe monitoring of deceleration on stop‐ direction (clockwise/counterclockwise) is ping with predetermining behavior monitored. Safely monitored position (SLP) 1 Safely limited position (SLP) • In addition to the safe movement, a safe • Monitoring of safe software switches absolute position range is monitored. • If the limits are infringed, the drive is shut down via one of the stop functions (pay attention to overrun). 1 Not defined in IEC 61800-5-2. 2 Unsafe braking: If a brake ramp has not been defined, then motor acceleration during the delay will not be detected NOTE - Functional safety of power drives IEC 61800-5-2 (type-B standard) Fluid control systems Valves All valves contain moving switching elements (piston slide, plunger, seat, etc.) which, due to their function, are subject to wear. The most frequent causes of the safety-related failure of valves are: 122 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION • Failure of functional elements of the valve (reset function, switching function, sealing function) • Contamination of the fluid Contamination constitutes unintended use and generally leads to malfunctions. A general rule for all valves is that contamination leads to premature wear, thus negating the essential prerequisites used for design and dimensioning based on a defined probability of failure. The mechanical springs for the reset function used in monostable valves are generally designed for high endur‐ ance and can be considered proven in accordance with ISO 13849-2. However, exclusion of failure in the event of the springs breaking is not possible. An important differentiating factor between the valves is the design of the moving switching element inside the valve. The failure mode for each valve is essentially determined by its design. Poppet valves might leak, but in piston valves, the piston slide might jam. With a poppet valve, the switching function is effected by the moving switching element (valve plate), which changes position relative to a seat inside the housing. This design enables large cross-sections to be released with short strokes. The risk of leaks can be excluded with an appropriate design. In the case of piston valves, the valve body closes or opens the flow path by moving over a bore or circumferential groove. The changes in the cross-section of the piston slide relative to the changes in cross-section inside the housing affect volume flow and are known as control edges. An essential feature of this valve design worthy of note is what is known as the lap. The lap is the longitudinal distance between the stationary and moving control edges of the slide valve. Due to the gap between the piston and the housing bore required for hard-sealing valves, a leak will occur in the event of a pressure