Muting shall be automatic, i.e., not manual. • Muting shall not be dependent on a single electrical signal. • Muting shall not be entirely dependent on software signals. • An invalid combination or sequence of muting signals shall not allow any muting state, and it shall be ensured that the protective function is retained. • The muting status shall end immediately after the material has passed through. To improve the quality of differentiation, additional limits, interlockings, or signals can be used including: • Direction of movement of the material (sequence of the muting signals) • Limiting the muting time • Material request by the machine control • Operational status of the material handling elements (e.g., conveyor belt, roller conveyor) • Material identification by additional properties (e.g., bar code) NOTE - Practical application of ESPE: IEC 62046 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 79 Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Safety light curtains with entry/exit function Active differentiation between person and machine (entry/exit function) provides other way of moving mate‐ rial into a safeguarded area. Horizontally arranged safety light curtains (AOPDs) are used for this application. Each of their light beams can be evaluated to distinguish the interruption pattern of the material or material carrier (e.g., pallet) from that of a person. By using self-teaching dynamic blanking, as well as other differentiation criteria such as direction of move‐ ment, speed, entry and exit in the protective field, etc., a safety-relevant distinction can be made. In this way, undetected entry into the hazardous area by anyone can be reliably prevented (see figure 60). Figure 60: Entry/exit function with horizontally installed safety light curtain in a processing station on an automobile assem‐ bly line Safety laser scanner with protective field switching Another way of moving material into a protected area is to actively switch protective fields. As an alternative to active protective field switching, it is possible to sep‐ arately evaluate simultaneous protective fields. Safety laser scanners with vertical (or slightly tilted) protective fields are generally used for this application. The appropriate protective field, from a series of pre‐ programmed protective fields, is activated by corre‐ sponding signals from the machine controller and ade‐ quately positioned sensors. The contour of the protec‐ tive field is designed such that passage of the material does not cause the protective device to activate, but unmonitored areas are small enough to prevent unde‐ tected entry into the hazardous area by anyone (see figure 61). Alternatively, protective field switching can be per‐ formed independently by the protective device without the need for external sensors or signals (e.g., the Safe Portal system solution from SICK, see figure 58, page 78). Figure 61: Access protection allowing material passage using safety laser scanners, vertical protective fields, and protective field switching with suitably arranged sensors 80 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Additional functions of ESPE Blanking For many AOPDs, configuration of the detection capabil‐ ity and/or protective field can be designed such that the presence of one or more objects within a defined section of the protective field does not trigger the safety function (OFF state). Blanking can be used to allow specific objects through the protective field, e.g., hose for cooling lubricant, slide/carrier for workpieces (see figure 62). For fixed blanking, the blanked area is precisely defined in terms of its size and position. For floating blanking, only the size of the blanked area is defined, not its position in the protective field (see table 30). If the object for which the blanking function in the pro‐ tective field had been configured, is no longer present in the protective field, there will be a gap in the protec‐ tive field of the AOPD. In this case, the AOPD can trigger Figure 62: Fixed blanking of light curtain beams on a trim‐ the safety function (off state). This prevents undetected ming press approach of parts of the human body to the hazard zone. If the blanked area is not completely covered by the blanked objects, a gap(s) is created in the protective field. This/these must be closed by additional coverage (see figure 62). Alternatively, the detection capability resulting from the gap must be taken into account in the minimum distance calculation. NOTE In the blanked area, the resolution capability of ESPE is enlarged (deteriorates). Take the corresponding manufac‐ turer's specifications into account when calculating the minimum distance. Table 30: Criteria for fixed and floating blanking Fixed blanking Floating blanking Reduced resolution Fixed blanking Fixed blanking with increased Floating blanking with com‐ Reduced resolution with par‐ size tolerance plete object monitoring tial object monitoring An object of fixed size must From the operator side, an An object of fixed size must An object of fixed size is be at a specific point in the object of limited size is be within a specific area of allowed in a specific area in protective field. allowed to move through the the protective field. The object the protective field without protective field. is allowed to move. the safety function being trig‐ gered. The object is allowed to move. To prevent gaps in the protective field, the absence (or in some cases, a change in the size or With reduced resolution, the position) of the object is used to trigger the safety function (OFF state). absence of the object in the protective field does not trig‐ ger the safety function (OFF state). 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 81 Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Control of a work operation using a protective device - PSDI mode Using the protective device to trigger the machine function (controlling protective device) is described as PSDI mode (PSDI – Presence Sensing Device Initiation). This operating mode is advantageous if parts must be manually loaded and unloaded cyclically. Conforming to the standards, PSDI mode can only be