strongly aligned with programmable resistance to common cause failures. A common cause factor (β) electrical systems, in addition to the aspects described above is calculated based on the number of positive permutations. (V model, quality management, etc.), it also includes numer- ous detailed notes and requirements about the correct proce- Item Score dures for software development for safety-related systems. Separation/segregation Result – Determining the SIL for the subsystem Are SRECS signal cables for the individual channels routed 5 separately from other channels at all positions or sufficiently First, the safety integrity of the hardware is determined sepa- 1 shielded? rately for each subsystem. 1 Where information encoding/decoding is used, is it sufficient 10 If the subsystems are already developed (as is the case with for the detection of signal transmission errors? certified safety light curtains, for example), a manufacturer Are SRECS signal and electrical energy power cables separate 5 will supply the corresponding parameters in the context of at all positions or sufficiently shielded? the technical specification. A subsystem of this type is usually If subsystems elements can contribute to a CCF, are they pro- 5 described in sufficient detail by the specification of SIL, PFHd, vided as physically separate devices in their local enclosures? and mission time. Diversity/redundancy For subsystems consisting of subsystem elements (interlock- Does the subsystem employ different electrical technologies 8 ing devices for protective doors or contactors, for example), on for example, one electronic or programmable electronic and the other hand, safety integrity must be determined. the other an electromechanical relay? Does the subsystem employ elements that use different physi- 10 SIL claim limit (SILCL) 3 3 cal principles (e.g., sensing elements at a guard door that use Once the hardware tolerance (architecture) has been specified, mechnical and magnetic sensing techniques)? d the maximum achievable SIL (SIL claim limit) can be deter- d Does the subsystem employ elements with temporal differ- 10 mined for the subsystem. ences in functional operation and/or failure modes? Do the subsystem elements have a diagnostic test interval of 10 Safe failure fraction Hardware fault tolerance ≤ 1 min? (SFF) 0 1 Complexity/design/application < 60% – SIL1 Is cross-connection between channels of the subsystem 2 prevented with the exception of that used for diagnostic testing 60 to < 90% SIL1 SIL2 purposes? 90 to < 99% SIL2 SIL3 Assessment/analysis ≥ 99% SIL3 SIL3 Have the results of the failure modes and the Machines that are not listed explicitly • EC type examination by a notified body: In the case of a test in Annex IV of the Machinery Directive are subject to the by a notified body, the manufacturer shall make his machine standard process. and the related technical documentation available so that The requirements described in the “Essential health and it can be determined by means of an “EC type examination” safety requirements” section of Annex I shall be met. It is the whether the machine meets the essential health and safety responsibility of the manufacturer to apply the CE marking, requirements. The notified body tests for compliance with without involving a test body or the authorities (“self-certifi­ the directive and issues an EC type examination certificate cation”). However, the manufacturer shall first compile the that contains the results of the tests. technical file so that the documentation can be submitted to • Use of a full quality management system (QMS) that has the national authorities on request. been assessed: The full QMS shall ensure conformity with the requirements of the Machinery Directive and be • Procedure for machinery that is listed in Annex IV: Ma­ assessed by a notified body. The manufacturer is always re­ chines that are particularly hazardous are subject to special sponsible for the effective and appropriate use of the QMS. procedures. See also Annex X to the Machinery Directive. Annex IV of the Machinery Directive contains a list of par­ ticularly hazardous machinery as well as safety components; Marking of the machine as CE-compliant this list includes electro­sensitive protective equipment such Once all the requirements have been met, the CE marking shall as photoelectric safety switches and safety laser scanners. be applied to the machine. The requirements described in the “Essential health and safety requirements” section effects analysis 9 A dual-channel system with HFT1 can claim SILCL3 with an been examind to establish sources of common cause failure SFF of 90%. and have predetermined sources of common cause failure been eliminated by design? Are field failures analyzed with feedback into the design? 9 Competence/training Do subsystem designers understand the causes and conse- 4 quences of common cause failures? Environmental control Are the subsystem elements likely to operate always within 9 the range of temperature, humidity, corrosion, dust, vibration, etc. over which it has been tested, without the use of external environmental control? Is the subsystem immune to adverse influences from electro- 9 magnetic interference up to and including the limits specified in Annex E? Value CCF factor (β) ≤ 35 10% 36 to 65 5% 66 to 85 2% 86 to 100 1% 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 3-91 Subject to change without notice Technical protective measures Risk reduction Example: Determining the SILCL and PFHd of the "actuator" subsystem 1) Definition of the “actuator” subsystem The "actuator" subsystem comprises two contactors with "feedback". As the contactors are positively guided, a safety-relevant failure of the contactors can be detected (EDM). The logic unit UE410 is itself not part of the “actuator” subsystem, but it is used for diagnostics purposes. 1 UE410 1 Contactors 2) Definition of hardware fault tolerance (HFT) Subsystem element 1: Single-fault safety (with fault detection) results in an HFT of 1. λD1,DC1 Common Diagnostics cause failure β Subsystem element 2: λD2,DC2 3) Determining the PFHd 1 0.1×C λ = = 3 a) Based on the fault rate λ D D MTTF d B 10d 3 As contactors are subject to wear, the B value and the estimated 10d d switching frequency must be used to calculate the switching frequency d per hour