the procedure for standards in the EU) as the basis. the machinery or machine compo- • Agree upon the procedure in the nents provided. event of deviations from harmonized standards. Safety inspections Experience shows that in practice, In Europe, the safe state of work equip- machine safety is not perfect. Protective ment and systems in operation is regulat- devices are often manipulated in order to ed by EU Directive 2009/104/EC (“Work work without interfering with tasks. Other Equipment Directive”); it shall be inspect- problems are the incorrect positioning of ed to ensure conformance with applicable protective devices and improper integra- national legislation. In particular, Article tion into control systems. 4a of the Directive defines the inspection During the operation and maintenance of of work equipment. Technical regulations the machine, the user (typically defined and standards or specific regulations can as the employer) shall ensure that the risk be taken as a starting point when building level is maintained at an acceptable level, or modernizing production facilities. These as determined by the risk assessment. stipulate that the user of the systems The user shall operate and maintain the concerned shall ensure that operational machine within the established operating safety is inspected and formally specified. limits, and consistent with the information In so doing, the employer shall ensure from the supplier addressing operation that work equipment is inspected in ac- and maintenance. cordance with the national transposition 6 The user must also establish and follow a of the Work Equipment Directive to the program of periodic and regular inspection country of use. The following five param- and maintenance to ensure that all parts, eters shall meet the requirements of the auxiliary machinery, and safeguards are in national transposition of the Directive: a state of safe operating condition, adjust- 1. Type of inspection ment, and repair in accordance with the 2. Scope of the inspection supplier’s information. 3. Depth of the inspection If the user deviates from the supplier infor- 4. Deadlines for the inspection mation for operation and maintenance or 5. Skills and capabilities of the people re- the established operating limits, the user sponsible for carrying out the inspection shall consult with the equipment and/or A safety inspection by SICK provides you component supplier(s) and shall use the with a fast overview of the safety status of risk assessment process to maintain risk your machines. We discuss potential for at an acceptable level. See ANSI B11.0 for improvement with you and work in partner- additional information. ship to realize them. 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 6-1 Subject to change without notice Deployment of machinery Responsibility of the user (operating organization) Work Equipment Directive, Article 4a: Inspection of work equipment 1. The employer shall ensure that where the safety of work equipment depends on the assembly conditions, it shall be subject § to an initial inspection (after assembly and before first being put into service) and an inspection after assembly at a new site or in a new location by competent people within the meaning of national laws and/or practices, to ensure that the work equipment has been assembled correctly and is operating properly. 2. The employer shall ensure that work equipment exposed to conditions causing such deterioration is subject to: • Periodic inspections and, where appropriate, testing by competent people within the meaning of national laws and/or practices 1 • Special inspections by competent people within the meaning of national laws and/or practices each time that exceptional circumstances which are liable to jeopardize the safety of the work equipment have occurred (e.g., modification work, accidents, natural phenomena or prolonged periods of inactivity) in order to ensure compliance with health and safety regulations and the timely detection and rectification of resulting damage 3. The results of inspections shall be recorded and kept at the disposal of the authorities concerned. They must be kept for a suitable period of time. When work equipment is used outside the undertaking it shall be accompanied by physical evidence 2 that the last inspection has been carried out. 4. EC member states shall determine the conditions under which such inspections are made. 6 6-2 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Placing on the European market Deployment of machinery Placing on the European market Deployment of machinery Placing products on the European market Once conformity has been ascertained in the context of overall validation (if applicable by involving a notified body), during the course of the preparation of technical documentation, the declaration of conformity can be issued and the CE mark added to the machine. The declaration of conformity shall take into account all European directives applicable to the machine. Technical documentation The scope of the technical documentation is described in An- Scope of the technical documentation nex VII, Section A of the Machinery Directive. For incomplete • General description of the machine: machines, the specific requirements of Annex VII, Section B of • Overview drawing of the machine, circuit diagrams of the the Machinery Directive apply. control circuits along with descriptions and explanations Based on the technical documentation, it shall be possible necessary to understand how the machine operates to assess the extent to which the machine meets the require- • Complete detailed drawings (possibly including cal- ments of the Machinery Directive. Insofar as is necessary for culations), test results, certificates, etc., necessary to the purpose of this assessment, the technical documentation examine the extent to which the machine meets essential shall cover the design, build, and function of the machine. health and safety requirements • List of applicable standards and other technical specifica- It shall be drafted in one or more of the official languages of the tions citing the essential health and safety requirements European Union; the instruction handbook for the machine, to taken from these standards which the specific provisions of Annex I, Number 1.7.4.1 apply, • Risk assessment documentation (g 1-6) from which the are an exception to this rule. procedure applied can be derived: