PLr a b c d e (ISO 13849-1) SIL ÷ 1 2 3 (IEC 62061) The table 5 allows the estimation of the effectiveness of the implemented technical protective measures and/or information for use provided. Table 5: Estimation of the effectiveness of the implemented technical protection measures and/or the information for use provided IN Risk Reduction Measures OUT Risk index MSE and/or CSE SIG and/or INS ORG and/or PPE Risk index 8 – 10 M 4 – 7 M 1 2 – 3 M n/a n/a 1 HR < 1 < 1 R 1 M n/a n/a < 1 < 1 HR to be implemented < 1 n/a n/a AR by the employer 2 petS 3 petS 1 – RISK ASSESSMENT MSE Mechanical safety precautions CSE Control-related safety precautions SIG Information on the machine (e.g., an indicator or sign) INS Information in the operating instructions ORG Safe work procedures PPE Personal protective equipment M Measure or a combination of these measures is mandatory for this risk level HR Measure or a combination of these measures is highly recommended for this risk level R One measure or a combination of these measures is recommended for this risk level, although less urgent than an HR recommendation AR Acceptable risk n/a Not applicable For more detailed explanations of the method and how to use SCRAM, see the SICK white paper „SCALABLE RISK ANALYSIS AND EVALUATION METHOD (SCRAM)“, 8024038. 26 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 1 – RISK ASSESSMENT Documentation The risk assessment documentation shall include the procedure applied and the results obtained, as well as the following information: • Information about the machine such as specifications, limits, intended use, etc. • Important assumptions that have been made, such as loads, strengths, safety coefficients • All hazards and hazardous situations identified and hazardous events considered • Data used and its sources as well as the accident histories and experience relating to risk reduction on comparable machinery • A description of the protective measures applied • A description of the risk reduction objectives to be achieved using these protective measures • The residual risks relating to the machine • All documents drafted during the risk assessment NOTE It is not possible to derive from the Machinery Directive an obligation on the manufacturer to supply the complete technical documentation to the purchaser (user) of the machine. Risk assessment using Safexpert® Figure 11: Risk assessment using the Safexpert® software from company ibf The risk assessment process is also included in Safexpert®, a CE management software from company ibf. The user is guided through the legal requirements and the requirements in the standards. This task is simplified by the pre-defined list of hazards, the CE management software from ibf for structured risk assessment, and the scheme for evaluating both the risk and the level of safety necessary in control systems. The necessary standards are always kept up to date with the StandardManager and the update assistants. The hazards are evaluated separately at each hazardous point and for each phase of the machine’s life cycle. Evaluating hazards individually enables the ideal measures for risk reduction to be selected in each case. Safexpert® uses a combination of risk graphs and matrices (tables). The estimation is made before (IN) and after (OUT) the protective measure (e.g., protective device) has been selected. The risk is categorized on a scale from 0 (no risk) to 10 (highest risk). 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 27 Subject to change without notice 1 – RISK ASSESSMENT Figure 12: Risk graph for evaluating hazards using the Safexpert® software from ibf NOTE Safexpert® is not only used for risk assessment. Using Safexpert®, every aspect of the conformity process according to the Machinery Directive can be completed and documented efficiently. Summary: Risk assessment General • Perform a risk assessment for all hazards. This iterative process must take into account all hazards and risks until there are no residual risks or only acceptable residual risks remain. Risk assessment process • Start the risk assessment by establishing the functions and the limits of the machine. • During the risk assessment, take into account in particular reasonably foreseeable misuse and malfunctions. • Then identify the hazards (mechanical, electrical, thermal,etc.) derived from the operation of the machine. Take into account these hazards in all life phases of the machine. • Then estimate the risks derived from the hazards. These depend on the extent of harm and the probability of occurrence of the harm. • Document the results of your risk assessment. 28 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice RISK REDUCTION STRATEGY Risk reduction strategy If the risk assessment shows that measures are required to reduce the risk, the 3-step method shall be used. The 3-step method The machine manufacturer must apply the following principles in the specified order when selecting risk reduction measures: 1 Safe design: elimination or minimization of residual risks as far as possible (integration of safety in the design and construction of the machine) 2 Technical protective measures: Take the necessary protective measures against risks that cannot be elimi‐ nated by design 3 Information for use about residual risks Safe design End or next Start (inherently safe design) hazard Has the risk Yes been reasonably reduced? No Technical protective measure No Has the risk Yes Have new been reasonably hazards been reduced? created? No Yes Information for use about residual risks Has the risk Yes been reasonably Risk assessment reduced? No Figure 13: Process of the 3-step method for risk reduction NOTE - General principles of risk reduction: ISO 12100 (type-A standard) 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 29 Subject to change without notice 2 Safe design (inherently safe design) Safe design is the first and most important step in the risk reduction process. During this process, possible hazards possibility of reaching over into account.............................................................. 103 Increase minimum distance (height of top