by hand locally. The reset must only prepare the machine to be put back into operation (see "Application of reset and restart", page 110). The operating instructions of the machine must provide information that after actuation and before resetting the control switch, the machine must be checked to determine the reason for the actuation. If the emergency stop control switch is operated by ropes or wires, the instructions must include checking the entire length of the ropes or wires. In the case of emergency stop control switches in porta‐ ble operator panels, resetting the emergency stop com‐ mand must only be possible after the actuated emer‐ gency stop control switch has been unlocked. If the area of operation of the machine is not fully visi‐ ble (see figure 73, page 90), an additional reset must be carried out by one or more reset buttons to avoid the risk of an unexpected start-up. This is to ensure that no persons are present in a danger zone or that persons in need of assistance remain undetected. Figure 73: Example of an area of operation that is not fully visible Emergency stop equipment The emergency stop function is a “safety function” and therefore the requirements of functional safety must be met (ISO 13849-1 or IEC 62061). The required reliability of the safety function (PL or SIL) should correspond to the purpose of the emergency stop function. The minimum requirement, however, is PL c according to ISO 13850 or SIL1 according to IEC 62061. The hydraulic and pneumatic equipment that performs an emergency stop function must comply with the require‐ ments of ISO 4413 or ISO 4414. The electrical equipment for emergency stop functions must meet the requirements of IEC 60204-1. The contacts on the electrical control switches must be positive opening normally closed contacts. The actuators must be red. The background must be yellow, if present and technically possible. The following types of control device may be used: • Switches actuated with mushroom head pushbuttons • Switches actuated with wires, ropes, or rails • Foot switches without protective cover (only for emergency stop and only if other solutions cannot be used) • Mains disconnecting devices operated by handles according to IEC 60204-1 90 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Figure 74: Emergency stop control switches in various designs If wires and ropes are used as actuators for emergency stop devices, they must be designed and attached so that they are easy to actuate. Reset devices shall be arranged so that the entire length of the wire or rope is visible from the location of the reset device. Measures must be taken to prevent loss of the emergency stop function due to breakage or unhooking of the wires or ropes. Neither the emergency stop actuator nor the background must be marked with text or symbols. If needed for clarification, only the following symbol (IEC 60417-5638) may be applied: Figure 75: Symbol IEC 60417-5638: Emergency stop To avoid confusion between actuation (e.g., pressing an actuator) and release (e.g., turning an actuator), the marking for release must be the same or approximately the same color as the actuator. Emergency stop control switches must be mounted in such a way that their actuation cannot be prevented by simple means or blocked unintentionally. Actuating surfaces with locks for resetting should be avoided. If such emergency stop control switches are used, the operating instructions for the machine must provide information on their correct usage. In particular, attention should be drawn to the possibility of injury if actuated with a key inserted. Area of operation of the emergency stop function The area of operation of the emergency stop function must always include the complete machine. If this creates additional hazards or has an unnecessary impact on production, the machine can be divided into several areas of operation of the emergency stop function. Areas of operation may include parts of a machine, a single machine, or a group of machines. Different areas of operation may overlap. A division into areas of operation should take into account the following: a) the visible areas resulting from the machine design b) the ability to recognize dangerous situations (visibility, audibility, etc.) c) all safety-relevant consequences for other parts of the machine or other machines d) the foreseeable hazard exposures e) all possible hazards in the area of operation The different areas of operation must be defined and marked so that the emergency stop control switches can be easily associated with the appropriate areas. The actuation of an emergency stop device for one area of operation must not prevent the triggering of an emergency stop function in another area of operation. The 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 91 Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION operating instructions of the machine must contain information on the area(s) of operation of the emergency stop control switches. Emergency stop control switches with different areas of operation should, as far as technically possible, not be arranged next to each other or located close to each other. Position of emergency stop control switches Emergency stop control switches must be provided at each operator panel unless the risk assessment indi‐ cates that it is not required. Emergency stop control switches must also be located in other places if the risk assessment indicates this (e.g., at entry and exit points or loading and unloading points). Emergency stop control switches that are to be oper‐ ated by hand must be installed at a height between 0.6 and 1.7 m above the access level (reference level). Foot switches for emergency stop functions must be permanently mounted at the access level. Figure 76: Distributed emergency stop control switches on a packaging system Avoiding unintentional triggering Unintentional triggering of emergency stop control switches must be avoided as far as possible without hindering intentional triggering. This is more likely to be achieved by layout