Ensure continuous equipotential bonding by means of conductive connections between parts of machinery and systems. • Apply physical separation of the control and measuring components from the supply unit, e.g., power supply units, contactors, actuators, inverters. • Do not use the shielding to carry equipotential bonding currents. • Use short shields and apply to the full surface area. • Connect any functional earth (FE) provided. • Terminate existing communication lines properly according to the manufacturer's specifications, e.g., using a terminator. Twisted cables are often required to transmit data (fieldbus). Example: Connecting shield correctly Example: Providing equipotential bonding Correct: Shield is short and Wrong: So-called “pig tails” fully tethered 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 37 Subject to change without notice 2 SAFE DESIGN (INHERENTLY SAFE DESIGN) Power section Control section Motors, Network Physical Solenoid valves Measuring transducers, actuators separation probes, detectors, sensor cables, bus cables Figure 16: Example of physical separation NOTE - EMC standards: IEC 61000-1 to -4 - EMC requirements on safety components: IEC 61496-1, IEC 62061 Fluid technology Fluid technology is the generic term used for all processes where energy is transmitted using gases or liquids. The generic term is used because liquids and gases behave similarly. Fluid technology describes processes and systems for the transmission of power using fluids in closed pipe systems. Subsystems Every fluid-related system comprises the following subsystems: • Compressing: compressor/pump • Conditioning: filters • Pumping: pipework/hoses • Controlling: valve • Driving: cylinder Pressure is established in any fluid-related system by pumping the fluid against loads. If the load increases, the pressure also increases. Fluid technology is applied in engineering in hydraulics (energy transmission using hydraulic oils) and in pneumat‐ ics (energy transmission using compressed air). | Guide for Safe Machinery 5 Subject to change without notice FOREWORD Foreword Figure 1: Machine safety inspection Safe machines increase legal certainty for the manufacturer and user. Machine operators expect to be offered only safe machinery or devices. This expectation exists worldwide. There are also regulations on the protection of operators of machinery worldwide. Such regulations are different depending on countries and regions. However, there is broad agreement on the process to be applied during the manufacture and upgrade of machinery: During the design and manufacture of machinery, the machine manufacturer shall identify and evaluate all possible hazards and hazardous points by undertaking a risk assessment. Based on this risk assessment, the machine manufacturer shall take suitable design measures to eliminate or reduce the risk. If the risk cannot be eliminated by these design measures or the remaining risk is not tolerable, the machine manufacturer shall select and apply suitable protective devices, and provide information on the residual risks if necessary. To ensure the intended measures work correctly, overall validation is necessary. This overall validation shall evaluate the design and technical measures, as well as the organizational measures in context. About this guide What does the guide contain? You have before you a comprehensive guide on machine safety requirements and on the selection and use of protective devices. We will show you various ways in which you can safeguard machinery and protect persons against accidents taking into account the applicable European directives, regulations, and standards. The exam‐ ples and statements given are the result of our many years of practical experience and are to be considered typical applications. 6 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice For better orientation and guidance through the guide, § we have divided the path to Oil-based hydraulics required a circuit for the fluid (feed and return), while in pneumatics the exhaust air is discharged to the environment using acoustic attenuators. Design principles The basic principles for the safe application of fluid technology are described in ISO 4413 (hydraulics) and ISO 4414 (pneumatics). All parts of a fluid-related system are to be protected against pressures that exceed the maximum operating pressure of a subsystem or the rated pressure of a component. A danger shall not be caused by leaks in a component or in the pipework/hoses. Acoustic attenuators are to be used to reduce the noise caused by escaping air. The use of acoustic attenuators shall not produce any additional hazard; acoustic attenuators shall not cause any harmful back-pressure. 38 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 2 SAFE DESIGN (INHERENTLY SAFE DESIGN) Use in potentially explosive atmospheres Protection against explosions is a particularly safety-related task. People are placed at risk in the event of an explosion, e.g., due to uncontrolled radiation of heat, flames, pressure waves, and flying debris, as well as due to harmful reaction products and the consumption of the oxygen in the ambient air necessary for breathing. Explosions and fires are not among the most common causes of industrial accidents. They often result, however, in serious injuries and death as well as major economic damage. Where dust, flammable gases, or liquids are manufactured, transported, processed, or stored, a potentially explo‐ sive atmosphere may be produced, i.e., a mixture of fuel and atmospheric oxygen within the limits for explosions. If a source of ignition is present, an explosion will occur. 100 vol. % Oxygen concentration vol. % Mixture too lean: Explosive Mixture too rich: No self-ignition atmosphere No explosion Explosion limits 0 vol. % Concentration of flammable substance 100 vol. % Figure 17: Conditions for an explosive atmosphere Assessing the scope of the required protective measures To assess the scope of the required protective measures, operators/employers need to divide potentially explosive- hazardous areas into zones based on the probability of the creation of a hazardous explosive atmosphere, see the ATEX Operational Directive 1999/92/EC, Annex I. The information in the following table does not apply to mining (underground or surface). Table 14: ATEX zone definition and equipment categories for equipment group II: Equipment for use in explosive dust and gas atmospheres Zone definition For gases G Zone 2 Zone 1 Zone 0 For dusts D Zone 22 Zone 21