| SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 73 Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Preventing mutual interference from AOPDs If several AOPDs are operated in close proximity to each other, the sender beams from a system (S1) can affect the receiver of another system (R2). There is a danger that the affected AOPD will lose its ability to provide protection (see figure 51). Assembly situations of this kind must be avoided. If this is not possible, suitable measures must be taken to prevent mutual interference (assembly of opaque partitions or reversing the direction of transmission of a system, for example). Type 4 AOPDs either have to have suitable external sender detection and change to a safe state (outputs in OFF state) when affected or have technical means to Figure 51: Mutual interference impedes detection by the prevent interference. Beam coding is normally used so ESPE (S2-R2) and the dangerous movement is not stopped. that the receiver only responds to light beams from the assigned (identically coded) sender (see figure 52). Figure 52: No mutual interference of protective devices due to the use of light beam coding – person is reliably detected and the hazardous movement is stopped. Figure 53: No mutual interference of protective devices due to suitable arrangement of the machine or ESPE systems Selection of a suitable ESPE Criteria can include: • Specifications from harmonized standards, in particular type-C standards • The space available in front of the hazardous area • Ergonomic criteria, e.g., machine loading and unloading cycles 74 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION • Resolution • Response time • Ambient conditions What safety function is the ESPE expected to perform? • Initiating a stop ("Initiating a stop", page 45) • Avoiding unexpected start-up ("Avoiding an unexpected start-up", page 45) • Preventing start ("Preventing start", page 46) • Combination of initiating a stop/preventing start (see "Combination of initiating a stop/preventing start", page 46) • Allowing material passage ("Allowing material passage", page 47) • Monitoring machine parameters ("Monitoring machine parameters", page 47) • Safety-related indications and alarms (see "Safety-related indications and alarms", page 50) • Other functions, e.g., PSDI mode, blanking, protective field switching, etc. (see "Additional functions of ESPE", page 81) NOTE - Requirements on ESPE: IEC 61496 series of standards Safety level For ESPE, the safety-related parameters have been implemented in a type classification (Type 2, Type 3, Type 4). Type 3 is defined for AOPDDR. Types 2 and 4 are defined for AOPD. Table 28: Main differences between type 2 and type 4 AOPDs according to IEC 61496-2 Type 2 Type 4 The protective function may be lost if a The protective function is maintained Functional safety fault occurs between test intervals even if multiple faults occur EMC (electromagnetic compatibility) Basic requirements Increased requirements Maximum aperture angle of the lens 10° 5° 262 mm 131 mm Reflective surface Aperture angle Minimum distance a Minimum distance a to reflective surfa‐ ces, for distance D ≤ 3 m Distance D sender-receiver Minimum distance a to reflective surfa‐ = distance x tan (10°/2) = distance x tan (5°/2) ces, for distance D > 3 m Several senders of the same type of No special requirements (beam coding is No effect or OSSDs shut down if they are construction in one system recommended) affected In addition to structural aspects (categories according to ISO 13849-1), the type classification also defines the requirements that shall be met with regard to electromagnetic compatibility (EMC), environmental conditions, and the optical properties. These include in particular their behavior in the presence of interferences (sun, lamps, similar types of device, etc.) but also the opening angle of optics in safety light curtains or safety light-beam sensors (the requirements to be met by a type 4 AOPD are more stringent than those for a type 2 AOPD). 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 75 Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION NOTE The aperture angle is decisive in determining the minimum distance in relation to reflective surfaces (see table 28). Achievable reliability of safety functions with optoelectronic protective devices Table 29: Comparison of the safety levels of ISO 13849-1 and IEC 62061 ISO 13849-1 Example devices a b c d e Safety light curtains, safety single-beam sensors, 2 safety multibeam sensors ESPE type acc. to 3 Safety laser scanners, safe camera sensors EN 61496-1 Safety light curtains, safety single-beam sensors, 4 safety multibeam sensors 1 2 3 SIL (IEC 62061) NOTE Always follow the additional application notes, information, and instructions in the instruction handbook for the optoelectronic protective devices! Types of protection and required detection capability of the ESPE This section describes the types of protection and which parts of the body should be detected by the ESPE. Hazardous point protection with finger or hand detec‐ tion Hazardous point protection is used to detect when a person comes very close to the hazardous point. This allows the smallest minimum distance to be imple‐ mented. This may be necessary for ergonomic oper‐ ation of the machine, e.g., for insertion work on a press, or to keep the space requirement of the machine low. Fingers/hands must therefore be detected, which requires ESPE with a detection capability up to 40 mm (ISO 13855). If a person can pass the detection zone of the protective device, prevention of unexpected start-up is necessary, e.g., by means of a reset function of the ESPE. Figure 54: Hazardous point protection on an automatic assembly machine with safety light curtain 76 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Access protection: detection of a person when access‐ ing a hazardous area Access protection is used to detect when a person enters the hazardous area. Detection of the largest body part (torso) is sufficient for this purpose. Access protection is particularly