maximum speed dance with NFPA 79 and IEC 60204-1. independent of the operating mode. • Uncontrolled stopping by means of immedi- ate interruption of the supply of power to the actuators. • Safe restart interlock: Prevents unexpected starting of the motor. Safe Stop 1 (SS1) 2) Safe Braking and Holding System (SBS) 1) • Corresponds to stop Category 1 in accor- • The safe braking and holding system con- dance with NFPA 79 and IEC 60204-1. trols and monitors two independent brakes. • Controlled stopping while maintaining the supply of power to the actuators. • After stopping or below a speed limit: Activa- tion of the STO function. • Optional: Monitoring of a brake ramp. Safe Stop 2/Safe Operating Stop (SS2, SOS) 2) Safe Door Locking (SDL) 1) • Corresponds to stop Category 2 in accor- • The door lock is only unlocked if all drives in dance with NFPA 79 and IEC 60204-1. a protective zone are in the safe state. • Controlled stopping while maintaining the supply of power to the actuators. • After standstill: Safe monitoring of the drive shaft position within defined range. 3 Safely Limited Speed (SLS) Safely Limited Increment (SLI) • If an enable signal is given, a safely reduced • If an enable signal is given, a safely limited c speed is monitored in a special operating increment is monitored in a special operat- mode. ing mode. • If the speed is exceeded, a safe stop func- • The drive is then stopped and remains in tion is triggered. this position. Safe Direction (SDI) Safely Monitored Deceleration (SMD) 1) • In addition to the safe movement, a safe • Safe monitoring of deceleration on stopping direction (clockwise/counterclockwise) is with predetermining behavior. monitored. Safely Monitored Position (SMP) 1) Safely Limited Position (SLP) • In addition to the safe movement, a safe • Monitoring of safe software switches. absolute position range is monitored. • If the limits are infringed, the drive is shut down via one of the stop functions (pay at- tention to overrun). Source: Bosch Rexroth AG 1) Not defined in IEC 61800-5-2. 2) Unsafe braking: If a brake ramp has not been defined, then motor acceleration during the delay will not be detected. ➜ Functional safety of power drives: IEC 61800-5-2 (B-type standard) 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 3-73 Subject to change without notice Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Risk reduction Fluid control systems Valves Safety-related design principles § All valves contain moving switching elements (piston slide, For the safety-related use of valves, feedback of the valve posi- plunger, seat, etc.) which, due to their function, are subject to tion may be necessary. wear. Here various techniques are used: The most frequent causes of the safety-related failure of valves • Reed switches that are actuated by a magnet fixed into the are: moving valve body • Failure of functional elements of the valve (reset function, • Inductive proximity switches that are actuated directly by the 1 switching function, sealing function) moving switching element of the valve • Contamination of the fluid • Analog position detection of the moving switching element of Contamination constitutes unintended use and generally leads the valve to malfunctions. A general rule for all valves is that contami- • Pressure measurement downstream of the valve nation leads to premature wear, thus negating the essential In the case of electromagnetically actuated valves, the solenoid prerequisites used for design and dimensioning based on a requires a suppressor similar to a contactor. In terms of safety 2 defined probability of failure. as defined in ISO 13849, the valves are defined as power con- The mechanical springs for the reset function used in mono- trol elements. The failure of drives/work elements must also be stable valves are generally designed for high endurance and considered according to the possible repercussions. can be considered proven in accordance with ISO 13849-2. However, fault exclusion in the event of the springs breaking is not possible. 3 An important differentiating factor between the valves is the c design of the moving switching element inside the valve. The failure mode for each valve is essentially determined by its design. Poppet valves might leak, but in piston valves, the piston slide might jam. With a poppet valve, the switching function is affected by the moving switching element (valve plate), which changes position relative a seat inside the housing. This design enables large cross-sections to be released with short strokes. The risk of leaks can be excluded with an appropriate design. Filter concept In the case of piston valves, the valve body closes or opens the The vast majority of failures of fluid control systems are due to flow path by moving over a bore or circumferential groove. The malfunctions related to contamination of the related fluid. The changes in of 29 December 2009, only Machinery Directive 2006/42/EC is to be implemented. The member states shall not prohibit, restrict, or prevent also forbidden for them to apply national laws, ordinances, or the distribution and commissioning of machinery and safety standards to impose more stringent requirements on machin­ components which comply with the Machinery Directive. It is ery quality. Work Equipment Directive The obligations for employers are set out in the Work Equip­ ment Directive, which applies to the use of machinery and equipment in the workplace. The directive aims to ensure that the use of work equipment is compliant with minimum regulations in order to improve oc­ cupational health and safety. Each member state is allowed to add its own national require­ ments: for example on the inspection of work equipment, service or maintenance intervals, use of personal protective equipment, design of the workplace, etc. The requirements of the Work Equipment Directive as well as national requirements and regulations are in turn implemented in national laws. What are the obligations for machinery manufacturers? Safe design of machinery Preparation of operating instructions The manufacturers are obliged to construct their machines The machine manufacturer shall prepare operating instruc­ compliant with the essential