Basic requirements Increased requirements c Maximum aperture angle of the lens 10° 5° Minimum distance a to reflective surfaces at a 262 mm 131 mm distance D of < 3 m Minimum distance a to reflective surfaces at a distance D of > 3 m = distance x tan (10°/2) = distance x tan (5°/2) Several senders of the same type of construc- No special requirements (beam coding is No effect or OSSDs shut down if they are af- tion in one system recommended) fected Main differences of type 2 and type 4 AOPDs according to IEC 61496 and UL 61496 3-30 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Preventing reflections from AOPDs For AOPDs, the light beam is focused from the sender. The aperture angle of the lens is reduced as far as possible so that disturbance-free operation can even be ensured in the event of minor alignment errors. The same applies to the aperture angle of the receiver (effective aperture angle according to IEC 61496-2). But even for smaller aperture angles, there is the possibility for light beams from the sender to be deflected from reflective surfaces, thus leading to a failure to detect an object (see figures). Mutual interference impedes detection by the ESPE and does work or performs a task is under protective equipment, clothing, devices or materials, all with the a legal duty to take reasonable steps to prevent bodily harm to goal of ensuring the health and safety of emplo yees. that person, or any other person, arising from that work or task. The Occupational Health and Safety Act provides a means of Typically this law is intended to establish the legal duties for power for each Pro vince to make regulations, set general prin­ all persons directing the work of others. It does not interfere or ciples and duties for workplace parties. Worker safety regulations replace any existing laws or regulations. This law is enforced by in Canada are enforced by the province in which the machine is the police and the crown. Whereas local Occupation Health and located. In Ontario, regulations are enforced by the Ministry of La­ Safety Laws (province dependant) are enforced by Ministries of bour. If the machine is located outside of the Province of Ontario, Labour or Workmens Compensation Boards. please check to ensure that National, Provincial and Local regula­ tions have been satisfied. The Canada Labour Code (CLC) governs, among other items, oc­ cupational safety and health in federal works, undertakings and In addition to these requirements, other Acts beyond the businesses including employment on ships, trains and aircraft Occupatio nal Health and Safety Act may also apply and may vary while in operation, and employment in the oil and gas industry in based on which Canadian Province the machine is located. The Canada Lands. More specifically, Part II of the CLC is intended to following examples are based on both Federal Government and prevent accidents and injury to health arising out of, linked with the Pro vince of Ontario. or occurring in the course the hazardous movement is not stopped. Installation situations of this kind must be avoided. If this is not possible, suitable measures must be taken to prevent mutual interference (assembly of opaque partitions or reversing the direction of transmission of a system, for example). Type 4 AOPDs either must have suitable external sender detec- tion and change to a safe state (outputs in OFF state) when af- fected or have technical means to prevent interference. Beam 3 coding is normally used so that the receiver only responds to light beams from the assigned sender (coded the same, see c The person is detected reliably and the dangerous movement is stopped. figures). Reflection impedes detection by the ESPE and the hazardous movement is not stopped. No mutual interference of protective devices due to the use of light beam coding – person is reliably detected and the hazardous movement is stopped. Accordingly, a minimum distance a must be maintained between all reflective surfaces and objects (e.g., containers, reflective floors) and the protective field of the system (see table "Main differences of type 2 and type 4 AOPDs according to IEC 61496"g 3-30). This minimum distance a depends on the distance D between sender and receiver (protective field width). The minimum dis- tance must be maintained on all sides of the protective field. Preventing mutual interference from AOPDs If several AOPDs are operated in close proximity to each other, the sender beams from a system (S1) can affect the receiver of another system (R2). There is a danger that the affected AOPD will lose its ability to provide protection (see figure). No mutual interference of protective devices due to suitable arrangement 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 3-31 Subject to change without notice Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Risk reduction Selection of a suitable ESPE Safety level Criteria can include: For ESPE, the safety related parameters have been implement- § • Specifications from harmonized standards, in particular C- ed in a type classification (Type 2, Type 3, Type 4). type standards In addition to structural aspects (categories according to ISO • The space available in front of the hazard zone 13849-1), the type classification also defines the requirements • Ergonomic criteria, e.g., machine loading and unloading that shall be met with regard to electromagnetic compatibility cycles (EMC), environmental conditions, and the optical properties. • Resolution (detection capability) These include in particular their behavior in presence of inter- ferences (sun, lamps, similar types of device, etc.) but also the 1 What safety function is the ESPE expected to perform? opening angle of optics in safety light curtains or safety photo- • Initiating a stop (g 3-3) electric switches (the requirements to be met by a type 4 AOPD • Avoiding unexpected startup (g 3-4) are more stringent than those for a type 2 AOPD). • Preventing start (g 3-4) • Combination: Initiating a stop and preventing