OF THE USER MODIFICATION NO NO Results in a new hazard? Increases an existing risk? YES YES NO New hazard results in a risk? YES YES Are the existing protective NO SIGNIFICANT CHANGE measures adequate? NO Can the risk be eliminated or adequately YES reduced by simple protective devices or simply integrated protective devices? NO SUBSTANTIAL MODIFICATION Figure 127: Decision steps for determining a significant modification (Source: Interpretation paper on the subject of “Signifi‐ cant Modification of Machinery”, BMAS Germany 2015) 160 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice ANNEX Annex How SICK supports you Integrating a safety function into a machine or machine concept requires a high level of safety engineering expertise. Achieving this level of expertise requires not only practical experience and current and extensive safety-related knowledge, but also expertise in the application of appropriate processes. With more than 70 years of experience in machine safety, SICK is your safety partner with safety expertise. Our tailored services provide you with the expertise you need to implement your machine safety in a manner that is compliant with the directives. In doing so, SICK is contributing to the ongoing development of the safety culture in your organization with the following goals: • Improving the safety of existing machines and systems • Ensuring integral safety when new machines and systems are purchased • Supporting designers in the application of the CE procedure and adjusting the design of machines and systems in order to reduce risk As your partner for machine safety, SICK offers: • Experience spanning many decades • Innovative solution ideas at the cutting edge of technology • International team of experts By involving SICK experts at an early stage, the following is achieved: • Safety will be planned as an integral part of your project. • Potential weaknesses will be identified early in the process. • Overdimensioning will be avoided. • Effectiveness and competitiveness will be ensured. Services from SICK increase safety and add value. SICK services for conformity and design of safe machines and systems As a manufacturer or end user of machines, you are responsible for the safety of the machines you develop or supply. The safety aspects can also change during the life cycle of the machine. Each phase of the machine life cycle poses specific challenges. SICK provides services to support you in these phases. 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 161 Subject to change without notice ANNEX Planning Installation Refurbishment Produktion Commissioning Operation Opeartion Decomissioning Design Commissioning modification Safety Services for Safety Services for machine machine manufacturers end-users Machine priorization 0 Verified Safety by SICK* Risk assessment 1 Safety concept 2 5 Verification and validation Safety design 3 4 Installation and commissioning * When creating and processing customer projects related to functional safety, the “VERIFIED SAFETY by SICK” quality seal ensures compliance with defined processes. As part of quality assurance and defined measures for fault preven‐ tion, the work results are subjected to checks by a second person. VERIFIED SAFETY from SICK means functional safety with verifiable quality. Safety services for machine manufacturers and users For a safe machine, you have the choice: Take advantage of the experience and expertise of SICK in all phases or get targeted support for individual steps. The closer the cooperation, the better the safety solution can be integrated into your machine. Certified safety experts accompany you step by step to a safe machine with professional project management. Depending on requirements, the scope of the project can be extended in phases and individually adapted to your needs. You can find our SICK Consulting Assistant for Safety Services and all our safety services at www.sick.com. 162 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice ANNEX Training and workshops Figure 128: In-person training at SICK Practical knowledge for all users It is generally accepted that the more experience you have, the safer your applications will be. Sharing experience and thereby optimizing applications is an important and integral component of the training seminars and work‐ shops provided by SICK. These therefore focus very much on practical applications. Tailored training Based on the needs of our delegates and the training content to be delivered, we will select the best way of sharing knowledge and safeguarding its transfer: • Safety training • Standards and directives training • Workshops • Online tutorial • Modular training concepts • Update training • Web-based training NOTE On request, we can also conduct our training sessions and workshops at your site. Contact us! Standards and directives training Legal provisions and standards change over time. Technological change requires that we adapt to innovations. In our modular training seminars for basic safety we share the latest knowledge in the following key areas: 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 163 Subject to change without notice ANNEX • How to select the right protective device in compliance with standards • How to integrate a protective device into the overall control system • How to correctly assess protective measures based on applicable directives, standards, and ordinances Product, system, and software training In these training sessions you will get to know our products even better in order to integrate them efficiently, reliably and safely into the planned application. The general design of our training sessions covers the different phases in the process for selecting and integrating a product: • Selection Safety aspects ° Product features and possible applications ° • Integration Adding to the application (assembly) and wiring ° Programming ° Commissioning ° • Safe operation Error analysis and troubleshooting ° On request SICK will draw up a customized qualification concept for your application. This service helps to optimize the quality of your work and accelerate knowledge transfer where safety is concerned. Staying up to date So that you are always up to date and have your finger on the pulse, we can offer you special options for ongoing and advanced training