number of or even all failures. Instead of a detailed analysis (FMEA), the ISO 13849-1 standard contains various quantified measures. The DC is divided into various ranges: 134 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3D – VERIFYING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Table 55: CCF measures with the maximum achievable values according to ISO 13849-1 Designation Range None DC < 60% Low 60% ≤ DC < 90% Medium 90% ≤ DC < 99% High 99% ≤ DC λ DC = 50% DD λ SFF= 75% S λ D Common cause failure (CCF) External influences (e.g., voltage level, overtemperature) can cause several identical components to become unusable at the same time, regardless of how infrequently they would otherwise fail or how well they have been tested. To illustrate this: When the light goes out, you can neither read the newspaper with one eye or with both eyes because it is dark. Such common cause failures must be prevented. Annex F of ISO 13849-1 provides a simplified method to evaluate measures taken against CCF. A maximum number of points is defined for each measure. Suitable points are awarded for each measure that has been applied. A total score of 65 or higher indicates that adequate CCF measures are in place. Requirement Points Minimum requirement Separation Separation of signal circuits, separate routing, isolation, air 15 paths, etc. Diversity Different technologies, components, principles of opera‐ 20 tion, designs Design, appli‐ Protection against overload, overvoltage, overpressure, etc. 15 cation, experi‐ (depending on technology) ence Use of components and methods proven over many years 5 Analysis, eval‐ Use of a failure analysis to avoid common cause failures 5 uation Competence, Training for designers so that they understand and can 5 training avoid the causes and consequences of CCF Environmen‐ For electrical/electronic systems, prevention of contami‐ 25 Total score ≥ 65 tal impact nation and electromagnetic interference (EMI) to protect against common cause failures in accordance with rele‐ vant standards (e.g., IEC 61326-3-1) Fluidic systems: Fil‐ tration of the pressure medium, prevention of dirt ingress, dehumidification of compressed air, e.g., in accordance with the manufacturer's requirements on the purity of the pressure medium. NOTE Both aspects should be taken into considera‐ tion when there is a combination of fluidic and electrical systems. Consideration of the requirements regarding insensitivity 10 to all relevant ambient conditions, e.g. temperature, shock, vibration, humidity (e.g., as defined in the applicable standards) 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 135 Subject to change without notice Process The standard provides various sources of help to ensure that the preceding aspects are implemented correctly in the hardware and software, that they are tested thoroughly (four-eyes principle), and that version and change history information is readily available in comprehensive documentation. This includes the measures for fault prevention and fault control: • Organization and expertise (responsibilities, qualification of employees, procedures, system of quality man‐ agement processes) • Design rules (e.g., specifications templates, coding guidelines) • Test concepts and test criteria • Documentation and configuration management The process for the correct implementation of safety-relevant topics is part of the remit of managers and includes appropriate quality management. Determination of the PL of a subsystem The following figure shows the relationship between the MTTF value (per channel), the DC, and the category of D safety-related parts of controllers. Diagnostic coverage (DC) Category )LP( leveL ecnamrofreP a b c d e None None Low Medium Low Medium High B 1 2 2 3 3 4 Low Medium High PFHD value 3D – VERIFYING THE SAFETY FUNCTION 10-4 10-5 3×10-6 10-6 10-7 10-8 MTTF Diagnostic coverage (DC) None Low Medium High D Figure 114: Relationship between the categories DC, MTTF of each channel, and PL according to ISO 13849-1 D A performance level of “d” can be achieved, for example, using a dual-channel control system (category 3). This can be achieved either with components of good quality (MTTF = medium) if almost all errors are detected (DC = D medium) or with components of very good quality (MTTF = high) if many errors are detected (DC = low). D A complex mathematical model underlies this procedure. To ensure a pragmatic approach, the parameters cate‐ gory, MTTF and DC are predefined. D 136 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice Example: Determining the PL of the “power control elements” subsystem 1) Definition of the “power control element” subsystem The “power control element” subsystem comprises two contactors with “feedback”. As the contactor contacts are positively guided, a safety-relevant failure of the contactors can be detected (EDM). The UE410 logic unit is not itself part of the “power control element” subsystem, but it is used for diagnostics purposes. 2) Determination of the category I1 Input L1 the country of use. If these operating instructions are not “original operating instructions” in an official EU language, then such a version must also be supplied. • You shall issue a declaration of conformity and mark the machine or the safety component with the CE marking. As a machine user, the Work Equipment Directive applies to you: • Observe the requirements of the Work Equipment Directive and its national implementations. These may also include more stringent requirements! • You shall find out whether further national requirements (e.g., testing of work equipment, service or mainte‐ nance intervals, etc.) exist and comply with them. Standards Standards are technical agreements made between the various interested parties (manufacturers, users, test bodies, occupational health and safety authorities, and governments). Contrary to popular opinion, standards are not prepared or agreed by governments or authorities. Standards describe the state-of-the-art at the time they are drafted. Over the last 100 years, a change from national standards to globally applicable standards has taken 16 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice § – LAWS, DIRECTIVES, STANDARDS place. Depending on the place the machine or product is to be used, different legal