by individuals in the event of a malfunction, a • The intended functions and operating modes fault, or a failure during the use of the machine • The malfunctions and disruptions to be expected • Human error due to lack of concentration or carelessness 1 • The people involved in the machine process • Human error due to the selection of the “path of least resis- • The products related to the machine tance” in the performance of a task • Intended use but also the unintentional actions of the opera- • Actions under pressure to keep the machine in operation no tor or the reasonably foreseeable misuse of the machine matter what happens • Actions by certain groups of people (e .g ., children, youths, Machine limits Examples the disabled) Use Limits Intended use of the machine, production Malfunctions and disturbances to be expected rates, cycle times, etc . There is significant potential for hazards due to malfunctions Space Limits Range of movement, maintenance, etc . and faults in the components relevant to functionality (in par- Time Limits Maintenance and wear of tools, fluids, etc. ticular components of the control system) . Examples: Environmental Limits Temperature, humidity, noise, location, etc . • Reversing of roller movement (with the result that hands are Interface Limits Other machines and auxiliary equipment, drawn in) energy sources, etc . • Movement of a robot outside its programmed working area Identification of the expected tasks to be completed on/by the machine Once the machine/system limits have been defined, the next • Packing and transportation • Tool change step in the process is to identify the various tasks and associa- • Unloading and unpacking • Planned maintenance ted hazards of operating the machine. The following list provi des • System installation • Unplanned maintenance some basic task categories that should be considered . It is im- • Start-up and • Major repair portant to note that this list is not exhaustive and that addition al commissioning • Recovery from crash task categories may apply . • Setup and try out • Troubleshooting • Operation — all modes • Decommissioning • Sanitation and cleaning • Disposal • Housekeeping 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 1-3 Subject to change without notice Risk assessment Identification of tasks and hazards Identification of tasks and hazards Risk assessment Identification of the hazards associated with each task After the tasks associated with the machine or system have both the intended use of the machine and any reasonably been identified, corresponding hazards should be considered foreseeable misuse of the machine . for each task. These tasks and hazards should account for Identification of other hazards In addition to identifying hazards directly associated with include the systematic identification of foreseeable hazards, 1 specific tasks of the machine, the risk assessment must also hazardous situations, and/or hazardous events. Hazards may include but are not limited to the following ... … in all phases of the service life of the machine. • Mechanical hazards • Transport, assembly, and installation • Electrical hazards • Commissioning • Thermal hazards • Setup • Hazards generated by noise • Normal operation and troubleshooting • Hazards generated by vibrations • Maintenance and cleaning • Hazards generated by radiation • Decommissioning, dismantling, and disposal • Hazards generated by materials and substances • Hazards generated by neglecting ergonomic principles during the design of machinery • Slipping, tripping, and falling hazards • Hazards related to the environment in which the machine is used • Hazards resulting from a combination of the aforementioned hazards Examples of mechanical hazards at machines/systems Cutting Crushing Shearing Stabbing Drawing in or trapping Drawing in or trapping Entanglement Impact Impact from broken parts Impact from ejected chips 1-4 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk assessment Risk estimation and risk evaluation Risk assessment Risk estimation and risk evaluation Risk estimation and risk evaluation After the hazards have been identified, a “risk estimation” is Various tools are available for the estimation of risks; these to be undertaken for each hazardous situation considered. A include tables, risk graphs, numeric methods, etc . variety of standards and technical reports have been developed Based on the results of the risk estimation, the “risk evalua- to assist with this process . tion” defines whether the application of protective measures is necessary and when the necessary risk reduction has been Risk Extent of Probability achieved . injury of occurrence Various standards and technical reports addressing risk as- The risk related to each hazardous situation considered is sessment utilize different approaches in considering these 1 determined by the following elements: factors . Based on applicable national, regional and local regula- • The extent of harm that can be caused by the hazard (minor tions, please reference one or more of the following standards for further guidance relating to the factors to be evaluated injury, serious injury, etc .) • The probability of occurrence of this harm. This is defined by: during the risk assessment process: • The exposure of a person/people to the hazard • The frequency occurrence of the hazardous event • The technical and human possibilities for the prevention or limitation of harm Standard Description ANSI B11 .0 Safety of Machinery — General Requirements and Risk Assessment ANSI/PMMI B155 .1 Safety Requirements for Packaging Machinery and Packaging-Related Converting Machinery SEMI S10 Safety Guideline for Risk Assessment and Risk Evaluation Process CSA Z432 Safeguarding of machinery ISO 12100 Safety of machinery — General principles for design -— Risk assessment and risk reduction ISO/TR 14121-2 Safety of machinery — Risk assessment — Part 2: Practical guidance and examples of methods ANSI/ASSE Z590 .3 Prevention through Design Guidelines for Addressing Occupational Hazards and Risks in Design and Redesign Processes ANSI/AIHA/ASSE Z10 Occupational Health & Safety Management Systems CSA Z1002 Occupational health and safety — Hazard identification and elimination and risk assessment and control MIL-STD-882 Department of Defense Standard Practice — System Safety ISO 13849-1 Safety of machinery - Safety-related parts