influencing factors. selection 1 The requirements of category B shall be • The occurrence of a fault can result met. Proven components and proven in the loss of the safety function, but safety principles shall be used. the probability of occurrence is lower than in category B. 2 The requirements of category B shall be • The occurrence of a fault can result met and proven safety principles used. in the loss of the safety function The safety function must be checked by between checks. the machine controller at appropriate • The loss of the safety function is 3 3 1 to instructions. In the latter case, the original operating instruc­ 5 of this Guide describe in detail how to proceed here. tions are also to be supplied. Original operating instructions are all operating instructions published by the machine manufac­ turer, independent of language. 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK §§--55 Subject to change without notice European directives Laws, regulations, directives, standards Preparation of technical documentation The machine manufacturer shall prepare technical documen­ tation according to Annex VII of the Machinery Directive. This § technical documentation shall: • Contain all diagrams, calculations, test reports and docu­ ments that are relevant to the conformity with the essential health and safety requirements of the Machinery Directive • Be archived for at least ten years from the last day of manu­ facture of the machine (or the machine type) • Be submitted to the authorities on duly reasoned request Note: It is not possible to derive from the Machinery Directive an obligation on the manufacturer to supply the complete technical documentation to the purchaser (user) of the machine. Issuing the declaration of conformity If the machine manufacturer has built the machine appropriate­ ly, he shall declare, in a legally binding manner, conformity with these requirements by issuing a declaration of conformity and marking the machine (CE marking). It is then permitted to place the machine on the market in the European Union. The Machinery Directive explains the complete process for the conformity assessment. A differentiation is made between two If no harmonized standards exist for the machine or if the procedures for machinery (g "EC conformity assessment pro­ machine or parts of the machine cannot be built according to cedure for machinery and safety components" g §­7): harmonized standards, the declaration of conformity can only be reached as follows: • Standard procedure: intervals (test rate 100 times higher detected by the check. than requirement rate). d d 3 The requirements of category B shall be • When the single fault occurs, the met and proven safety principles used. safety function is always retained. Safety-related parts shall be designed • Some, but not all faults are detected. such that: • Accumulation of undetected faults • A single fault in any of these parts may lead to loss of the safety func- will not lead to the loss of the safety tion. function • Wherever it is reasonably possible, Predominantly characterized by the the single fault is detected. structure 4 The requirements of category B shall be • The safety function is always retained met and proven safety principles used. when faults occur. Safety-related parts shall be designed • The faults are detected in a timely such that: manner to prevent the loss of the • A single fault in any of these parts safety function. will not lead to the loss of the safety function and • The single fault is detected on or before the next request for the safety function. If this is not possible, an accumulation of faults will not lead to the loss of the safety function. 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 3-83 Subject to change without notice Technical protective measures Risk reduction Mean time to dangerous failure (MTTFd) “MTTF” stands for Mean Time To Failure. From the point of view ISO 13849-1 combines the MTTFd figures into ranges: of ISO 13849-1, only dangerous failures need to be considered Designation Range (hence d). Low 3 years ≤ MTTFd < 10 years This value represents a theoretical parameter expressing the Medium 10 years ≤ MTTFd < 30 years probability of a dangerous failure of a component (not the High 30 years ≤ MTTFd < 100 years entire subsystem) within the service life of that component. The The mean time to a dangerous failure in years (MTTFd) can be actual service life of the subsystem is always shorter. calculated for the overall system from the component values. 1 The MTTF value can be derived from the failure rates. The fol- To avoid overrating the impact of reliability, the useful maximum 1 lowing rules apply: value for the MTTFd has been limited to 100 years. • B values for electromechanical or pneumatic components. 10 Here, wear and thus the maximum permissible application time are determined by the switching frequency. B indi- 10 cates the number of switching cycles until 10% of compo- nents fail. • The B value indicates the number of switching cycles until 10d 10% of components fail dangerously. If the B value is not 10d available, a blanket B = 2 × B can be assumed. 10d 10 • Electronic components: failure rate λ. Failure rates are often expressed as FIT (Failures In Time). One FIT is one failure 3 3 per 109 hours. d d Not acceptable MTTF Low MTTF Medium MTTF High MTTF 3-84 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice suoregnad a fo ytilibaborP ]%[ eruliaf MTTFd=3years MTTFd=10years MTTFd=30years MTTFd=100years Time [years] launam AIGB :ecruoS 100% 80% 63.2% 60% 40% 20% Not considered 0% 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 Risk reduction Technical protective measures Diagnostic coverage (DC) The level of safety can be increased if fault detection is imple- Designation Range mented in the subsystem. The diagnostic coverage (DC) is a None DC < 60% measure of capability to detect dangerous faults. Poor diagnos- Low 60% ≤ DC < 90% tics only detect a few faults, good