SAFETY FUNCTION Safety relay Parameterizable controller Configurable controller Programmable controller Figure 99: Illustration of the preferred fields of application of safe control technologies depending on the number of sensors and safety functions The functionality of the logical operators — e.g., simple AND, Flipflop, or special functions such as muting — also affects the selection. Figure 100: Example of a safe software function block for muting with inputs and outputs 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 117 Subject to change without notice Software specification Design Matrix Safety outputs To prevent the occurrence of a dangerous state, soft‐ 0 = Logical 0 or OFF ware-based logic units in particular shall be designed S = Enable (restart) I = Logic 1 or ON so that they can be relied upon to prevent errors in the – = any status logic. To detect systematic errors, a thorough system‐ atic check should be made by someone other than the designer and thus the principle of counter-checking by a second person applied. A simple way of implementing this specification is the so-called design matrix. Here certain combinations of safety-related input signals for specific cases (e.g., “position lost”, or “robot left”) are combined. These cases shall act on the machine functions via the safety- related outputs in accordance with the requirements of the safety function. This simple method is also used by SICK during the design of application software. It is advisable to have this reviewed by all involved in the project. In the case of programs that are poorly documented and unstructured, errors occur during subsequent mod‐ ifications; in particular, there is a risk of unknown dependencies or side effects, as they are often referred to. When the software is developed externally, good specifications and program documentation are very effective in avoiding faults. stupni ytefaS toboR tfel no elbaT thgir no elbaT ... ... Case Position lost 0 – – Robot left S – – Robot right S – – Robot center S – – Access left S I – Access right – – I Emergency stop 0 0 0 ... tceffE 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Figure 101: Example of a design matrix as an aid in the development of safety functions Power control elements The safety function initiated by the protective devices and the logic unit shall stop dangerous machine functions. For this purpose, the drive/actuator elements are switched off by power control elements. NOTE - Principle of switch off/power shutdown: ISO 13849-2 (type-B standard) Contactors Electromechanical contactors are the most commonly used type of power control element. One or more contactors can form a safety function subsystem by combining special selection criteria, wiring, and technical measures. By protecting the contacts against overcurrent and short-circuits, over-sizing (normally by a factor of 2) and other measures, a contactor is considered a proven component. To be able to perform diagnostics on contactors for safety functions, unambiguous feedback of the output state is necessary (EDM = external device monitoring). This requirement can be met using a contactor with positively guided contacts. The contacts are positively guided when the contacts in a set of contacts are mechanically linked in such a way that normally open contacts and normally closed contacts can never be closed simultaneously during at any point during the intended mission time. 118 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice The term “positively guided contacts” refers primarily Normally closed to auxiliary contactors and auxiliary contacts. A defined contact ≥0.5 mm distance between the contacts of at least 0.5 mm at the normally closed contact must be ensured even in Normally open contact the event of a fault (welded N/O contact). Since on contactors with low switching capacity (< 4 kW) there is essentially no difference between the main contact elements and the auxiliary contact elements, it is also possible to use the term “positively guided contacts” to refer to those small contactors. ≥0.5 mm Normally closed contacts On larger contactors, what are known as “mirror con‐ tacts” are used: While a main contact on a contactor is closed, no mirror contact (auxiliary normally closed Normally open contacts contact) is allowed to be closed. A typical application for mirror contacts is the highly reliable monitoring of the output state of a contactor in control circuits on machines. GA relleoM :ecruoS 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Figure 102: Contact system of a contactor with positively guided contacts. A normally-open contact is welded. Suppressor elements Inductances such as coils on valves or contactors must be equipped with a suppressor to limit transient voltage spikes on shutdown. In this way the switching element is protected against overload (in particular against overvolt‐ age on particularly sensitive semiconductors). As a rule, such circuits have an effect on the release delay and, therefore, on the required minimum distance of the protective device (see "Approaches to calculating the minimum distance", page 100). A simple diode for arc suppression can result in a release (switch to OFF) time up to 14 times longer. Table 48: Example diode suppressors for limiting transient overvoltages Suppressor elements Diode Diode combination Varistor RC element (via inductance) U Protection against overvoltage Very high High Limited High 1) Release delay (delay in switch‐ Very long Short Very short Very short 1) ing OFF) (relevant to safety) (but must be taken (not relevant to (not relevant to into account) safety) safety) 1) The element must be exactly matched to the inductance! Drive technology When considering safety functions, drives represent a central sub-function, as they pose a risk of unintentional movement, for example. The safety function extends from the sensor to the power-controlling element. Safety function Power Sensor Logic control element Figure 103: Elements of a safety function 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 119 Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION The power control element can comprise several components (contactor, drives, feedback), depending on the technical design and safety function.