Custody period and deadlines • List of essential health and safety requirements appli- The technical documentation must be held ready for the re- cable for the machine sponsible authorities of the member states: • Description of the protective measures taken to avoid the • From the day of construction of the machine hazards identified or to reduce risk and, if applicable, list • For at least 10 years following completion of the last unit of the residual risks posed by the machine • The technical documentation does not necessarily have to • All technical reports with the results of tests carried out by be physically located in the European Community and also the manufacturer or a body selected by the manufacturer or does not need to be in material form (e.g., digital storage). the manufacturer's agent However, the person designated in the EC declaration of con- • Instruction handbook for the machine formity shall be able to make the technical documentation • Copy of the EC declaration of conformity available by a reasonable deadline. • If applicable, copy of the EC declarations of conformity for the other machines or products incorporated into the machine 6 • If applicable, declaration of incorporation and mounting instructions for incomplete machines Warning: If technical documentation is not made available to the responsible national authorities in response to a reasoned request, this can be sufficient reason to question the ability of the machine concerned to comply with essential health and safety requirements. Instruction handbook An instruction handbook in the official language of the country For more information, see “Step 4: Administrative measures / of use shall be supplied with the machine. This instruction Information for use on residual risks,” g 4-1. handbook shall be the "original instruction handbook" or a translation of the "original instruction handbook"; in the latter case the original instruction handbook shall also be supplied. 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 6-3 Subject to change without notice Notes Deployment of machinery Deployment of machinery Notes § 1 2 6 6-4 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Annex How SICK supports you Annex How SICK supports you How SICK supports you The efficient integration of the safety • Supporting designers in the ap- function in a machine or machine con- plication of the CE procedure and cept requires advanced safety expertise. adjusting the design of machines and This expertise covers not only skills, systems in order to reduce risk topicality, and scope in relation to safety You are quite right to expect your partner knowledge but also experience in the to meet exacting requirements. A partner application of suitable processes. Only must: a safety partner who is able to combine • Have many years of experience all of these factors can be considered an • Come up with innovative ideas expert in safety. • Be international in how it is organized SICK has more than 60 years' experience If you consult SICK experts at an early in machine safety and can provide you stage, you can ensure: with customized services that deliver the • Safety will be planned as an integral expertise that is necessary to implement part of your project safety in your machines in compliance • Potential weaknesses will be identi- with directives. fied early in the process In so doing, SICK is making a contribu- • Over specifying safety requirements tion to the ongoing development of the will be avoided safety culture in your organization with • Effectiveness and competitiveness the aim of: will be ensured • Improving the safety of existing ma- Services from SICK increase safety and chines and systems add value. • Ensuring integral safety when new machines and systems are purchased SICK safety services for the support and design of safe machines and systems Safety services from SICK are avail- SICK individually or as a comprehensive able during each phase of the machine service solution within the scope of a lifecycle. They can be purchased from safe machine or system design. Consulting & Design • Risk Assessment SICK’s on-site experts can assist you on the front end • Safety Concept of your project. Bringing in SICK’s globally available • Hardware & Software experts at the beginning of your project saves time Design and money while ensuring you are using the latest • Safety Integration technologies appropriately. Project Management Product & System Support • Installation With reliability and support you can trust, day in and • Commissioning day out. SICK LifeTime Services ensure that the sensor systems and safety devices on your machines and systems are always fully operational. Verification & Optimization • Validation Lines change and safety regulations evolve. Our experts i • Inspection can help you make sure your existing machines and • Stop Time solutions continue to run at optimal levels and meet Measurement current safety requirements. In this chapter ... Training & Education SICK safety services..............i-1 • Safety Education Our training programs will give you and your colleagues Training seminars and workshops...i-3 • Product Training — confidence when working with SICK’s products and Safety Devices systems. Safety education from the industry experts Overview of relevant standards .....i-6 ensure you are up to date on current safety regulations. Useful links ....................i-12 Glossary/Index .................i-14 7028282/2014-09-08 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK i-1 SSuubbjjeecctt ttoo cchhaannggee wwiitthhoouutt nnoottiiccee How SICK supports you Annex SICK — we support your system over the entire product life cycle Our services are a natural extension of the high-quality prod- ucts we offer. They ensure reliable and safe performance over the lifetime of the product and machine. They not only protect your initial investment, but also protect your operations and pro- cesses from costly downtime and expense, and ensure longer asset life and usefulness. Our staff of professionals are trained to provide the highest level of support and are there when you need them most. Among the many benefits of using SICK’s LifeTime Services are: • Identification of risk to eliminate potentially costly hazards