then actuated. For type III two-hand control devices, the following also apply: • A function may only be initiated if both controls have been actuated synchronously within 0.5 seconds. Sub-types with detailed control-related requirements are defined for type III two-hand control devices. The most important sub-types are: • Type III A: PLc or SIL 1 • Type III B: PLd or SIL 2 with HFT1 • Type III C: PLe or SIL 3 with HFT1 NOTE HFT1: see "Hardware fault tolerance (HFT)", page 140 NOTE - Requirements on two-hand control devices: ISO 13851 (Type-B standard) NOTICE - Calculation of the minimum distance for two-hand control devices see "Approaches to calculating the minimum distance", page 100 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 85 Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Enabling devices Enabling devices are control switches which the opera‐ tor can use to purposely enable a machine function. Generally, pushbuttons or foot switches are used as enabling devices. Having proven their worth in indus‐ trial applications, 3-position enabling devices are to be recommended. • Position 1, not actuated Execution of the function is not enabled • Position 2, actuated in middle position Execution of the function is enabled • Position 3, actuated beyond the middle position Execution of the function is not enabled and it must stop immediately. Depending on the applica‐ tion, the triggering of a safety-related stop func‐ tion or an emergency stop function may also be required. During machine setup and maintenance, and if it is necessary to observe production processes close up, the functions of the protective devices intended for normal operation can be temporarily disabled using Figure 69: Enabling device for setting up an automatic drilling machine enabling devices. This is only permissible, however, in conjunction with other measures that minimize the risk (reduced force or speed, etc.). NOTICE The machine start shall not be initiated solely by the actuation of an enabling device. Instead, movement is only permitted as long as the enabling device is actuated. The enabling device function must not be released while changing back from position 3 to position 2. If enabling devices are equipped with separate contacts in position 3, it is recommended to integrate them into a safety-related stop function or the emergency stop function. Protection against manipulation shall be considered when using enabling devices. NOTE - Requirements on enabling devices: IEC 60204-1 Foot switches Foot switches are used to control work processes. On certain machines (e.g., on presses, punches, bending and sheet metal working machines), foot switches may only be used in safety functions under the following conditions: • only for special operating modes • always in conjunction with other technical protective measures (e.g., slow speed of a dangerous movement) Foot switches used in this way must be designed as follows: • A protective cover to protect against unintentional actuation • A 3-position design similar to the enabling switch principle (see "Enabling devices", page 86) • With manual reset on actuation of the actuator beyond the pressure point • In such a way that after the dangerous machine function has stopped, the restart occurs only after the foot switch is released and actuated again 86 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION • In such a way that a short circuit in the connection cable between the foot switch and the control system does not trigger an unintentional start (e.g., with at least one normally open contact and one normally closed contact for evaluation) • In appropriate numbers for all operators, so that a dangerous machine function can only be initiated and maintained if all foot switches are actuated Sensors for monitoring machine parameters The risk assessment may show that certain machine parameters shall be monitored and detected during opera‐ tion (see "Monitoring machine parameters", page 47). Safe position monitoring If, for safety reasons, parts of a machine are not allowed to overrun or leave a certain position, position switches or safety-related sensors should be used for this purpose. Electro-sensitive safety inductive position switches are particularly suitable for this task (see table 21, page 63). They monitor a certain part of a robot’s axis or a moving part of a machine for presence without the need for a specific actuator, without wear, and with a high enclosure rating. Figure 70: Safe position monitoring for a lift on an automobile production line Monitoring of rotation, speed, overrun Encoders or travel measurement systems are used to detect and evaluate rotation, speed, and overrun. The signals from encoders can be used in automated guided vehicles to adapt the protective field size of safety laser scanners to CE marking Figure 5: EU directives for manufacturers and users regarding machine safety and occupational health and safety 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 11 Subject to change without notice § – LAWS, DIRECTIVES, STANDARDS NOTE The directives are freely available, e.g., at eur-lex.europa.eu. NOTE European directives apply to manufacturers and organizations that place machinery on the market in the Euro‐ pean Union. The Machinery Directive Machinery Directive 2006/42/EC addresses the manufacturers and distributors of machines and safety compo‐ nents. It establishes the necessary tasks for new machines to meet health and safety requirements in order to dismantle trade barriers within Europe and to guarantee a high level of health and safety for users and operators. It applies to machines and to safety components individually placed on the markets, as well as to used machines and safety components from third-party countries which are placed on the market in the European Economic Area for the first time (e.g., from the USA or Japan). • In 1989, the Council of the European Community passed the directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to machinery, known as the Machinery Directive (89/392/EEC). • By 1995, this directive had to be applied in all EC Member States. • In