suitable for protecting large areas and areas with large access points. A person who has passed the detection zone of the protective device is no longer detected. Access protection there‐ fore always requires prevention of unexpected start-up. Figure 55: Access protection of a machine using safety multi‐ beam sensors and deflector mirrors Hazardous area protection: detection of the presence of a person in the hazardous area Hazardous area protection is used to detect when a person approaches or is present in the hazardous area. This requires detection of the lower limbs or torso. Hazardous area protection is particularly suitable for machines where, for example, the hazardous area can‐ not be fully seen from the position of the reset push‐ button. Hazardous area protection does not require a reset function if the detection zone cannot be exited in the direction of the hazardous point. When entering the hazardous area, the dangerous state of the machine is stopped and starting is prevented. Figure 56: Hazardous area protection of a rotating table using a safety laser scanner 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 77 Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Mobile hazardous area protection: detection of a per‐ son approaching the hazardous area Mobile hazardous area protection is used to detect when a person approaches or is present in the hazard‐ ous area of a moving hazardous point. This requires the detection of the lower limbs. The application may require that people lying down are detected. Mobile hazardous area protection is particularly suita‐ ble for autonomous vehicles (e.g., cranes and forklifts). Figure 57: Mobile hazardous area protection of an autono‐ mous forklift truck using a safety laser scanner Automatic material passage using ESPE The following safety functions can be integrated either in the logic unit or directly in suitable ESPE. Automatic protective field switching When large openings of machines are secured using ESPE, changing the shape of the active protective field can allow the passage of materials or packages with different contours. This prevents persons accessing the hazardous zone above or behind these materials. Some types of ESPE (AOPD) allow preprogrammed protective fields to be activated by external signals. Instead of muting the entire protective device ("Muting", page 79), a suitable (vertical) protective field of the ESPE can be activated during passage. In addition, field switching may also be required if the hazardous zones of machines change dynamically dur‐ ing machine operation, e.g., adapted exclusion zones for industrial robots with different operating cycles or for transfer trolleys when docking at a station. Figure 58: Application example for the passage of materi‐ als with a different contour and corresponding automatically adjusted protective fields of safety laser scanners 78 SPECIAL INFORMATION | Guide for Safe Machinery 8007988/2024-10-21 | SICK Subject to change without notice 3C – DESIGNING THE SAFETY FUNCTION Muting The muting function is used to temporarily deactivate the protective function of Union is regulated by treaty as follows: The EU Commission or the Council of the European Union issues legal acts, including so-called directives, which define the basic objectives and requirements. The directives are kept technology-neutral as far as possible. The Member States then have to implement these directives in their national legislation. The following directives have been published in the area of health and safety at work and machine safety: • The Machinery Directive, which addresses the manufacturers of machines • The Work Equipment Directive, which addresses the users of machines • Additional directives, e.g., Low Voltage Directive, EMC Directive, ATEX Directive Manufacturer Operating entity TFEU Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union Art. 114 Art. 153 Removal of trade barriers in the EU internal market Collaboration between EU states in social issues OSH Framework Directive 89/391 / EEC Low Machinery Product EMC Directive Workplace Use of Work ATEX Voltage Directive Safety 2014/30/EU Directive Equipment Operational Directive Directive Directive 2006/42/EC Directive 89/654/EC 2009/104/EC 1999/92/EC 2014/35/EU 2001/95/EC Use of Personal Protective Health and Safety Signs Equipment Directive at Work Directive 89/656/EC 92/58/EC Occupational Safety Act (ArbSchG) § § Product Safety Act EMC Ordinance on Industrial Safety and Health (BetrSichV) ProdSG Act statuory insurances Regulations (BGV) Rules (BGR) Information (BGI) Employee Protection Act (ASchG) Mandate of the EU Commission Implementation of General Employee Protection Ordinance (AAV) for the creation of safety EN standards Work Equipment Ordinance (AM-VO) standards to CEN/CENELEC without amendment. Harmonized, if published Federal Act on Work in Industry, Trade in the OJEU and Commerce (Employment Act SR 822.11, ArG) Ordinances on the Employment Act (ArGV) Ordinance on Accident Prevention (VUV) The application of harmonized standards provides presumption of Purchase order according to Machine operator (assumption conformity with the directives. applicable regulations of responsibility) Declaration of conformity SAFE MACHINE a protective device. This is necessary when material must be moved through the protective field of the protective device without stopping the work routine (hazardous state of the machine). It can also be used effectively to optimize the work rou‐ tine if allowed by certain machine states (e.g., muting the function of a safety light curtain during the non-haz‐ ardous upwards movement of a press die, making it easier for the operator to remove workpieces). Muting shall only be possible if the access to the haz‐ ardous point is blocked by the passing material. If it is not possible to stand behind (or pass through) detec‐ tion areas, muting shall only be possible if the machine functions still taking place are not dangerous (e.g., non- dangerous upward stroke of a press). This status is determined by muting sensors or signals. For the muting function, great care is necessary when Figure 59: Muting function with safety light curtain and mut‐ selecting and positioning the muting sensors and con‐ ing sensors on a wrapping machine troller signals used. The following conditions shall be met to implement a safe, standardized muting function: • During muting, a safe state must be ensured by other means, therefore it shall not be possible to access the hazardous area. •