| SICK 3-13 Subject to change without notice ylppus rewoP for operating functions for safety functions Logic unit Logic unit for operating functions for safety functions Power control Power control elements elements Driving/working elements Driving/working elements without hazard with possible hazard In this chapter ... Development of safety concept...3-13 The safety-related parts of control Control systems shall be designed to systems are to be selected to suit the avoid hazardous situations. A machine Functional layout of a machine safety functions and the necessary level shall only be put into operation by the control .......................3-13 of safety. These parts include sensors, intentional actuation of a control device Technology, selection, and use logic units, power control elements, for provided for this purpose. of safeguarding ...............3-17 example, as well as drive and work ele- If a machine restart will pose a hazard, Positioning and dimensioning of ments. This selection is generally made then restarting by switching on the sup- protective devices..............3-44 in the form of a safety concept. ply voltage shall be excluded by techni- Application of reset and restart...3-64 A safety function can be implemented cal means. If a machine restart will not Integration of protective devices using one or more safety-related pose a hazard, then restarting without into the control system..........3-65 component(s). Several safety functions operator intervention (automatic restart) Fluid control systems ...........3-74 can share one or more components. is permitted. Safety-related pneumatics.......3-75 Product overview for safety technology....................3-76 Summary.....................3-77 Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Risk reduction Subsystems of the safety-related part of a machine control system Event Signal Signal Signal Movement § Power control Sensor Logic unit Drive element element The drive elements shall be designed according to "good engineering 1 practice." They are only part of the safety function if their Subsystems of the safety-related part of a machine control system failure may lead to a hazard (e.g., suspended axes). Decisive factors The following features are to be taken into account during the Human aspects 2 preparation of the safety concept: The following human aspects should be taken into account: • Features of the machine • Expected qualification of the machine operator • Features of the surroundings • Expected number of people in the area • Human aspects • Approach speed (K) • Features of the design • Possibility of defeating the protective devices 3 • Characteristics of safeguarding (g3-17) • Foreseeable misuse Which protective devices are to be selected and how they are to Features of the design c be integrated must be defined based on the above features. It is always advisable to implement safety functions with certi- Features of the machine fied safety components. Certified safety components will sim- The following features of the machine should be taken into plify the design process and subsequent verification. A safety account: function is performed by several subsystems. • Ability to stop the dangerous movement at any time (if not It is often not possible to implement a subsystem using only possible, use guards or impeding devices) certified safety components that readily provide the level of • Ability to stop the dangerous movement without additional safety (PL/SIL). In fact, the subsystem frequently has to be hazards (if not possible, select different design/protective assembled from a number of discrete elements. In such cases, device) the level of safety is dependent on various parameters. • Possibility of hazard due to ejected parts (if yes: use guards) • Stopping times (knowledge of stopping times is necessary to ensure the protective device is effective) • Possibility of monitoring stop time/overrun (this is necessary if changes could occur due to aging/wear) Features of the surroundings The following features of the surroundings should be taken into account: • Electromagnetic disturbances, radiated interference • Vibration, shock • standards in the education and training in the field of quirements for all machines as well as require­ various countries. occupational safety and health. ments for certain specific types of machinery. Some examples of specific types of machinery regulations are: •1910.212 — General requirements for all machines •1910.213 — Woodworking machinery requirements •1910.216 — Mills and calenders in the rubber and plastics industries •1910.217 — Mechanical presses •1910.219 — Mechanical power transmission apparatus Two important clauses from 1910.212 “General requirements for all machines” state: 1910.212(a)(1) Types of guarding. One or 1910.212(a)(3)(ii) The point of operation of more methods of machine guarding shall be machines whose operation exposes an provided to protect the operator and other employee to injury, shall be guarded. The employees in the machine area from hazards guarding device shall be in conformity with such as those created by point of operation, any appropriate standards therefore, or, in the ingoing nip points, rotating parts, flying chips absence of applicable specific standards, shall and sparks. Examples of guarding methods be so designed and constructed as to prevent are­barrier guards, two­hand tripping devices, the operator from having any part of his body In this chapter ... electronic safety devices, etc. in the danger zone during the operating cycle. U.S. regulatory requirements . . . . . . §­1 This information may be obtained at OSHA’s internet web site at: Canada regulatory requirements. . . §­2 - www.osha.gov/index.html Mexico regulatory requirements . . . §­3 Brazil regulatory requirements. . . . . §­3 In addition, Section 18 of the OSHA Act of •Alaska •New Mexico European directives . . . . . . . . . . . . . §­4 1970, OSHA also encourages the States to •Arizona •New York 1) develop and operate their own job safety and The Ambient light, light interfering with sensors, welding sparks • Reflective surfaces • Contamination (mist, chips) • Temperature range • Moisture, weather 3-14 GUIDE FOR SAFE MACHINERY | SICK 7028282/2014-09-08 Subject to change without notice Risk reduction Safeguarding (technical protective measures) Safety-related parameters for subsystems The safety level of a subsystem is dependent on various safety- related parameters. These include: • Structure • Reliability of the components/devices • Diagnostics for detecting faults • Resistance to common cause faults • Process 3 c