part-revolution clutch, brake, and a brake monitor if used on a power press. The operator’s hands are required to be at a safe location (on control buttons) and at a safe distance from the danger area while the machine completes its closing cycle. 2.3.5 Two-hand Trip A two-hand trip requires concurrent application of both of the operator’s control buttons to activate the machine cycle, after which the hands are free. This device is used with machines equipped with full- revolution clutches. The trips must be placed far enough from the point of operation to make it impossible for the operators to move their hands from the trip buttons or handles into the point of operation before the first half of the cycle is completed to prevent them from being accidentally placed in the danger area prior to the slide/ram or blade reaching the full down position. 19 July 2021 SLAC-I-730-0A21T-016-R003 8 of 12 SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory Environment, Safety & Health Division Machine and Portable Tools | Machine Safeguarding Guideline 2.3.6 Gate Gates are movable barriers that protect the operator at the point of operation before the machine cycle text can be started. Gates are, in many instances, designed to be operated with each machine cycle. If the gate does not fully close, machine will not function. 2.4 Guarding by Location / Distance Locate the machine and its dangerous moving parts so that they are not accessible or do not present a hazard to a worker during normal operation. Maintain a safe distance from the danger area. To consider a part of a machine to be safeguarded by location, the dangerous moving part of a machine must be so positioned that those areas are not accessible or do not present a hazard to a worker during the normal operation of the machine. This may be accomplished by locating a machine so that the hazardous parts of the machine are located away from operator work stations or other areas where employees walk or work. Additionally, enclosure walls or fences can restrict access to machines. Another possible solution is to have dangerous parts located high enough to be out of the normal reach of any worker. 2.5 Feeding and Ejection Methods Many feeding and ejection methods do not require operators to place their hands in the danger area. In some cases, no operator involvement is necessary after the machine is set up. In other situations, operators can manually feed the stock with the assistance of a feeding mechanism. Properly designed ejection methods do not require operator involvement after the machine starts to function. Using feeding and ejection methods does not eliminate the need for safeguarding. Guards and other devices must be used wherever they are necessary to provide protection from hazards. Automatic feeds reduce the operator exposure during the work process, and sometimes do not require any effort by the operator after the machine is set up and running. 2.6 Miscellaneous Aids Although these aids do not give complete protection from machine hazards, they may provide the operator with an extra margin of safety. Sound judgment is needed in their use. 19 July 2021 SLAC-I-730-0A21T-016-R003 9 of 12 SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory Environment, Safety & Health Division Machine and Portable Tools | Machine Safeguarding Guideline 2.6.1 Awareness Barriers Awareness barriers do not provide physical protection but serve only as reminders to a person that he or she is approaching the danger area. Generally, awareness barriers are not considered adequate where continual exposure to the hazard exists. 2.6.2 Protective Shields Aids such as clear protective shields do not give complete protection from machine hazards, but do provide some protection from flying particles, splashing cutting oils, and coolants. They provide the operator with an extra margin of safety. 19 July 2021 SLAC-I-730-0A21T-016-R003 10 of 12 SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory Environment, Safety & Health Division Machine and Portable Tools | Machine Safeguarding Guideline 2.6.3 Hand-feeding or retrieving Tools Hand-feeding or retrieving tools can place or remove stock. Hand-feeding tools are intended for placing and removing materials into the in the danger area of a machine. Hand-feeding tools are not a point-of- operation guard or protection device and shall not be used in lieu of appropriate safeguards, but as a supplement. A typical use would be for reaching in the danger area of a press or press brake. Another example would be a push stick or block used when feeding stock into a saw blade. When it becomes necessary for hands to be in close proximity to the blade, the push stick or block may provide a few inches of safety and prevent a severe injury. 2.7 Guard Construction Builders of many single-purpose machines provide point-of-operation and power-transmission safeguards as standard equipment. Unfortunately, not all machines in use have built-in safeguards provided by the manufacturer. Guards designed and built by the manufacturer offer two main advantages: 7. They usually conform to the design and function of the machine. 8. They can be designed to strengthen the machine in some way or to serve some additional functional purposes. Guards fabricated by the machine tool user are sometimes necessary for a variety of reasons, and offer these advantages:  Often, with older machinery, they are the only practical solution. 19 July 2021 SLAC-I-730-0A21T-016-R003 11 of 12 SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory Environment, Safety & Health Division Machine and Portable Tools | Machine Safeguarding Guideline  In older plants, they may be the only choice for mechanical power transmission apparatus, where machinery is not powered by individual motor drives.  They permit options for point-of-operation safeguards when skilled personnel and machinery are available to make them.  They can be designed and built to fit unique and even changing situations.  They can be installed on individual dies and feeding mechanisms. User-fabricated guards also have disadvantages. They may  Not conform well to the configuration and function of the machine  Be poorly designed or built  Not comply with regulatory requirements 3 References SLAC Environment, Safety, and Health Manual